Hello ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to The Right Opinion, the home of a twat with too much free time,
and 2020, not the most enjoyable year to say the least.
I recall back to my Q&A in March, when the Nostradamus Opinion announced that the year seemed to be calming down,
which in hindsight was a slightly misguided forecast, in fact, I'd positively say it was a kiss of death,
as the world has careened towards its frankly well-deserved Armageddon.
I've honestly not handled it too well personally, to see so much going on makes me want to curl up in a ball and hibernate,
or estivate if you consider when all this was happening.
At the same time, there's always reason within the chaos, and I've always lived by the philosophy that I emerge from hardships of wiser man,
and a part of me hopes that would be similarly applicable on a macro level as well,
however, we'll never reach that if we can't have a proper, mature discussion to understand how such discord has arisen,
and at times when emotions can run high, we often need voices of reason to lead that discourse forward,
so that we can all learn from such adversities.
In the past few years in particular, I feel that YouTube has become increasingly integral to that conversation,
introducing a new generation to the many complex, and sometimes, not so complex matters facing down today's youth,
with online creators engaging audiences through fresh mediums, acquainting them with new ideas and perspectives.
Although the nature of my channel can be a little biographical, I hope that people have found value in the viewpoints I have to share,
and you know what, I'd say the feedback has been broadly positive.
One way that people recognise the work you do often is what some regard as year-end lists,
where individuals compile a selection of their favourite creators and post it to their preferred social media site.
At the end of 2019, I was once again honoured by being placed amongst YouTubers who put great effort into their respective hustle,
however, one name whose presence I was surprised to see was a commentator by the name of Blair White.
Oh hi, welcome back to my channel. So you guys are currently in bed with me, which not a lot of people can say because I am very innocent.
Blair White is a creator who has been on the platform for a good few years, and has spent her time mostly preoccupied with sociopolitical commentary.
She presents her perspective from quite a unique angle, espousing conservative leaning narratives which wouldn't be too exceptional on paper,
but is somewhat intriguing when you juxtapose this ideology with the fact that Blair is transgender.
A lot of the times on this channel and on my social media, I'm presenting a sort of side to the trans topic that not many people are used to seeing.
I don't talk about things in the way that every single other trans influencer in the world talks about.
I don't talk about things in the way that every other trans activist you've ever seen talks about them. I am different.
These two positions aren't entirely incompatible, but when considering that the doctrine of social conservatism in particular
has often been quite hostile to LGBT rights, it would seem that adopting this outlook would be counterintuitive for anyone of that demographic's denomination.
However, with young republicans and conservatives seeming to be more amenable to pro-LGBT policy, the setting of an online platform aimed at a younger,
more broad-minded audience could not be more alluring to those who may find themselves set apart from their stereotypes by their beliefs, identity, or in this instance even, both.
Since launching her channel in 2016, Blair has amassed over a million subscribers, garnering a dedicated fanbase eager to see her
tackle subjects which can often be highly consequential for the parties involved.
In many ways, her personal experience as a transgender individual allowed her to provide a new energy to previously archaic conservative narratives
that were often weighed down by their inherent lack of empathy for the individuals at the heart of the discussion,
while also correcting misconceptions that had previously been peddled about Blair and many of her peers.
To those who admired her, and perhaps to Blair herself, White was a bridge between previously estranged communities who on the surface had very little in common.
However, unlike some political commentators who have sprung up in the last few years, Blair was never exactly renowned for her diplomatic demeanour.
If you're trans, you don't have the right to share an opinion like this, for which I actually quote tweeted them and said,
I'm trans, idiot!
They criticised me for being a transmedicalist, which is me believing that being trans is a medical issue because that's exactly what it is.
And just really mad that I don't think non-binary people are the same thing as trans. Too bad, too sad. Whatever.
In fact, from my perspective, she had been a divisive figure from since I could remember, and therefore, when seeing her alongside a fair few marred-mannered creators,
I was surprised. Now, I don't follow too many commentators outside my sphere, but I stay in the loop with all the current affairs,
and it was intriguing that someone who I knew for being moderately contentious among communities, to put it mildly,
had won over the hearts of those who would typically steer clear of that brand of content.
However, I decided not to investigate further because it wasn't really of much concern to me.
If she was making content that went down with a wider spectrum of viewers, then good for her.
Nonetheless, there was this lingering expectation in the back of my head, this may not be the last that I hear from her,
given that she was still outspoken on many issues, some of which would put her into conflict with some of her audience.
Yet, she may well have evolved, and in her videos, she definitely seemed to purport herself as a reasonable medium.
No, there are normal trans people out there who don't believe all these radical things.
And why don't those trans people get a voice? You know, there's so many people who talk about how, like,
every trans story needs to be heard, and we have to listen to trans people, and blah, blah, blah, and like, cool, that's great,
but why is it only on your terms? Why is there one narrative? And if we don't follow it, then no,
everyone should be heard but Blair White. Like, what are we doing?
Moderation. It's an important facet in 2020, with the post-election landscape to dwell on,
a president-elect who pledged to take the US back to some normality, yet a residual skepticism of real change,
and polarized tension that seemed hard to palliate. Many of her fans would have argued that Blair's place could not have
been more essential in healing the wounds that so many had sustained that year.
Unfortunately, although some may have longed for her wisdom in this critical time, it was instead about to be the subject
of an investigation, which provoked by an avoidable incident, would drag much of her past back into light,
and bring into question that self-acclaimed reputation of a reasonable, rational, and logical voice amongst all the havoc,
with former fans and foes asking if actually she had been the instigator of this havoc all along.
I have thousands of people write to me every single day that they are so disgusted with the way that trans people are portrayed
in the media, all because this is how trans activists, and the more radical people on the end of the spectrum,
are dictating it be portrayed.
Well, to answer that curious query, I suppose it's about time we take a look for ourselves, and to do so,
I'd like to go right back to 2015, where the Blair White YouTube story all began.
So if you'd care to join me on this journey, you'd be most welcome. Without further ado, let us commence.
— 2015 YouTube. How does one characterise it?
— Saying Sean King is white when he's white is incendiary.
Christ menstruating with tits isn't incendiary.
— I'm here to ask questions, and it seems like you guys aren't very open to them.
— For many years, YouTube had been the platform dominated by creators who didn't appear to take themselves too seriously.
However, this had been gradually evolving, and by the end of 2015, this transformation was mostly complete.
Now, there were still entertainers galore, but a more prominent role had been occupied by a political clique known to some as the Skeptics,
the title acquired from their responses to eccentric religious zealots.
Some of the creators in the community were more lighthearted in their narratives, merely mocking their subjects and providing casual repulsive,
while others tended to attack the specific fabric of arguments quite aggressively, even being quite provocative themselves.
— If we come from monkeys, then why are there still monkeys? And who is giving them markers and pieces of paper to write on?
— In spite of this, by the present year, many YouTubers in this field were also referred to as anti-SJWs,
an acronym for Social Justice Warrior, because they had shifted their focus towards other targets,
many of whom were treated with absurdity or incredulity, either in their arguments or their attitudes.
Now, not all skeptics went on to be anti-SJWs, and some in fact became very critical of that movement.
However, this movement also seemed to broadly merge with creators who had not necessarily made anti-creationist content prior,
some of whom, gamers, others just casual creators turned commentators, mobilised by incidents such as the infamous gamer gate,
or just general antics that they felt were worth calling out.
— ...overprofessional goals, plus minimising their own
— Of many online, it was not hard to see why. They were generally not the most personable individuals,
often presenting their somewhat radical ideas in a rather disagreeable fashion,
and this subsequently made them quite easy prey for the enlightened commentator who'd regularly descend from the heavens to put the half-wits in their place.
I even dabbled in it here and there myself, though that year I must say I had more pressing matters to attend to.
— What I do understand is that Jeremy Hunt is not qualified to run the NHS. His approval rating lies at 17%. 17 fucking percent.
Fantastic Four has a better public rating. Fantastic fucking four.
— Damn, I really put those politicians in their place.
— Anyhow, turning back to this genre of creators, in reflection, it's very easy to look back at that social zeitgeist in a sneering fashion,
but there were many who were very invested from a variety of political factions, because at the time,
I feel that what a lot of these self-proclaimed advocates of social justice represented to these creators and audiences alike
was an attack on an internet culture quite sacred at the time, and one heavily exhibited in a variety of content,
the sort of edge without any real weight behind it.
— I will see how it goes after a week. Can we do next promotion? Hell yeah, yellow n***a.
At the same time, it's important not to undersell the level of political engagement in a lot of these videos.
There was a lot more at stake than just what happened online, and a lot more depth to the discourse,
particularly contained within a multitude of social issues which had seeped onto the platform as tensions in the real world
appeared to be rising with the impending plebiscites. It was an exciting time to be a creator in that genre,
and more people wanted to be involved, one of those being our fabled title character.
At this moment, Blair was a computer science student at the California State University Chico campus,
however, she was not having the most fun with her life, feeling a bit outcast by her identity,
a transgender, yet conservative leaning individual, a stark contrast to many of her liberal professors and fellow students.
Like many others in such a position, Miss White found more at home in the online sphere,
a place that she likely felt was more accommodating towards her beliefs and attitudes.
In many ways, the online world has provided a protective enclave for a variety of identities,
especially those that may face ostracism in real life. This was merely another branch of that outlet,
who knows exactly when she decided to become a YouTuber, but a turning point appeared to be when
she appeared on stream with Crayta, who we can assume to be Theron Meyer, based on the tweet,
and obviously based on the archive of the video. It seems that many people encouraged her to start
uploading her own content, and not too long after, her first video was published.
BLAIR Hello, my name is Blair, for those of you who don't know, and in this video, I'm going to be discussing
a few related topics, one being feminism, the next being the men's rights movement,
also the concepts of privilege, both male and female privilege, and just kind of my thoughts on all those things.
TRO Now, Theron, whose stream Blair had made the aforementioned appearance on, was a creator mostly
focused around advocating for men's rights at the time, and therefore, it made sense that Blair's
maiden video covers similar talking points. The upload in question is titled Female Privilege,
and as the title implies, it seeks to observe various deficits in society, where women actually
possess an advantage over their male counterparts, seemingly in contrast to many narratives disseminated
by accredited institutes.
BLAIR I've lived my life on both sides of the coin, per se, at different periods of my life.
I think I definitely am in a position to critique the concept of privilege, as it's perpetuated by
feminist ideology. So there was a shift that happened in the way that the world interacted with me,
as I went further into my transition, sort of the way that strangers interacted with me, the way I was
treated, it all changed. It manifested in ways such as doors being held open for me, seats on
public transportation being surrendered instantly, really. The term ladies first is definitely
something that's actually implemented, it's not just a phrase.
TRO However, Blair also uses the video to express her own personal investments, and experiences given
her a rather unique background in this dialogue. As a person who has transitioned, Blair sees
herself as someone who has encountered both sides of the gender coin, and thus also the privileges
and drawbacks of constructs often bestowed onto such identities, implying this provides her with
unique insight onto the topic, juxtaposing these differing experiences. She calls upon personal
observations, before sharing some hard-hitting statistics with her viewers.
BLAIR The truth is that men make up 80% of suicides, nearly half of all domestic violence victims,
more men in the US are raped, that is when you factor in prison statistics,
77% of homicide victims, 93% of workplace deaths, 88% of homeless individuals are male,
and they're constantly screwed over in child custody and alimony cases.
TRO This sort of content was hardly exceptional, mostly parroting core talking points made by a lot
of its proponents, however, as a cornerstone for what her content was to become, it seemed to lay
the framework quite nicely. Her tone, although stern, was not hostile, her sources, occasional
spelling error aside, are cited, and her production, although somewhat lacking, still
allowed for content to be digestible. To be frank, a lot of political content back then consisted of
an avatar that, if you were lucky, moved its arms up and down, so to have a fully expressive
individual talking about these topics may have been considered a blessing to many.
BLAIR These numbers definitely seem unfamiliar to most people, I know they definitely were to me
when I started researching all of these things, but the reason they seem so unfamiliar, and maybe
even not so believable, is because feminism does not even allow the conversation to be had.
TRO As an upload, Blair White's anti-feminist stance didn't tell us much about the world,
but it did tell us a bit about Blair, however, there was more to come,
and first impressions can only tell us so much. BLAIR So those are my thoughts on the topics at
hand, and I definitely want anyone who disagrees with me to comment, because I am open to people
disagreeing with me, I like having my views challenged, and I am willing to change my mind
if I'm proven wrong, so bye. TRO Blair's first upload was met with thoughts from many within
the community that she was appealing to, particularly given her mostly forthcoming
tone and open-minded outlook. Nonetheless, it was more than that, due to the previously expressed
contrast of Blair's gender identity with her political identity, and how she used it in
discourse. In a way, it dynamically flipped a narrative that had been traditionally associated
with fairly progressive circles, the reference to how one's experience and identity can often shape
their viewpoints, often being used as a stimulus to call for more diversity in certain intellectual
circles. Here we had someone who represented that diverse upbringing, but whose ideological
path diverged from that which would be expected of someone who was stereotypically associated
with her demographic. Many clearly welcomed this, though you may be justified in finding
some people's enthusiasm a little nauseating. At the same time, as she acknowledges herself,
she still passes as a cis woman in many spaces, so her perspective is somewhat different to that
of other trans people who may be subjected to stigma relating to their appearance.
But I am lucky enough that I can enter most public spaces, and the world does interact with me as a
woman, not as a trans person or as a man.
Now, there were many criticisms that could be levelled towards her narratives, particularly
given her tendency to conflate her specific experience as a woman with female experiences
in general, an issue that would rear its head in future escapades. However, she didn't seem
averse to criticism, and still pointed towards clear systemic inequalities that should be
addressed. As first videos go, it could be worse, and her next few videos followed a similar pattern.
He tells a story, and I don't remember exactly what his situation was, but basically, his situation
was worse than any girls in this class who talked about how their boyfriend used to verbally abuse
them, or used to hit them, or used to grab them, whatever. Everyone in the class started laughing.
Literally. I think the only person that didn't laugh was the f***ing me, and the instructor,
the professor. And the truth is, you know, more women in the US are affected by domestic violence
in terms of being victims, but it's something like over 40% are men, so it's not like it's 90-10
or 80-20, it's like 60-40, and I would venture to guess that it might even be closer to 50-50
if you take into account the fact that men don't talk about it, and when they do, they get f***ing
laughed at. And it does intersperse with some factual information, often as a secondary feature.
This isn't to a detriment, and there are many perceptual benefits to this, such as a more intimate
relationship between the creator and their audience, but it also means there is a sense of trust
that needs to be invested in the creator. For some people, that degree of trust needs to be earned,
but if you're speaking to a believable experience that resonates with people, then the threshold is
often lowered, so certain stories of institutional intolerance may hit closer to home for some
individuals, particularly if it fits into their worldview. And back then, the idea of vicious,
college-dwelling feminists who added in for every cursed bloke who had ever set foot on Earth wasn't
one that seemed far-fetched at all, especially with the prevailing narratives in many of these
communities, substantiated by many, frankly, unflattering clips.
What? Humongous what? Humongous what? Humongous what? Humongous what?
This person just spoke to me in a sexually harassing way.
Yeah, he did.
Blair's early output was definitely built on a somewhat personal connection between herself and the audience.
This could also be reflected in the fact that her fourth video was a Q&A, surprisingly premature for
a channel's lifespan, but she portrayed herself as an open book who felt comfortable divulging
details about her life, which consequently commanded a lot of respect from her viewers.
However, at the same time, this personal journey granted her with a lot of flexibility in the
topics she could tackle, and with each subject she approached, we seemed to learn more about her,
and her curious opinions. Her videos were even structured in a way so that they would follow on
previous theses, though this may alienate people who don't necessarily agree with her presuppositions,
especially ones that kind of assumed that she was correct, which wouldn't necessarily be the case.
So now that we're all in agreeance that feminism is indeed cancer, let us take a look at the ways
in which feminism is, like a virus, able to spread its misinformation, half-truths, blatant lies,
and overall retardedness through the internet.
Oh, okay, I guess we established that then. The thing is that it's hard to go along with these
assumptions when a lot of Blair's points aren't the most ironclad, and to be brutally honest,
Blair's content didn't particularly stand out in the points that she made from a lot of other creators,
sometimes falling quite short.
And it's true that women do have a higher pressure to look youthful and to stay young because we do
value that in women within this culture, but that expectation is directly perpetuated by women.
The billion-dollar beauty industry, which is advertising anti-aging creams and
Botox and things like that, those are largely ran by women, made for women. So if this meme is
trying to imply that men are doing this to women, it's actually not true.
This is from a video titled Feminism is Pointless, though it was very charmingly titled
Feminism is Cancer at one point, where Blair reacts to a slew of memes that vary in their
logical soundness, but also expose some of Blair's internal biases, such as the one shown in that
curious clip. Now, even if Blair was correct in her assertion regarding industry leaders,
it wouldn't necessarily be a valid response because the meme was a critique of society,
rather than men specifically, and it never asserted that men presently were the sole cause of harsher
beauty standards that were often imposed onto women, an issue that Blair acknowledges as
existent right off the bat. Now, as noted, this is freshman content from our budding creators,
so we can't expect everything to fall into place perfectly. I'm sure I and many other creators were
hardly producing content of the highest order at this size, but it was symptomatic of that desire
to prove a point, even when there wasn't one to be proven exactly.
So this one's cute. It's a picture of a feminist father wearing a shirt explaining that when it
comes to dating his daughter, he doesn't make the rules, and her daughter's boyfriend does not make
the rules. So if you want to stick a blowtorch up his daughter's asshole and tell her to pretend to
be a Charmander, he's fine with that because it's her body. Uh, thank you for your contribution,
Blair. Yes, in spite of the personal tone and story shared, it feels like there is still a
default back to a generic narrative employed by a lot of creators around that time.
It's really frustrating to me that we live in a climate where there's all this discussion of gender
politics, and these conversations often include things like manspreading, and mansplaining,
and catcalling, and we have this huge elephant in the room, 80% of suicide victims being male,
and we're not talking about it. The hack need any way feminism bad, or strained what aboutisms.
Sure, the number of men who take their own lives is undoubtedly alarming, but I don't know why that
has to be compared to a discussion about catcalling, a behaviour which, I have to admit,
I personally find rather grotesque. This is an example of what was indeed a greater problem in
the community at the time, but also one found on the channel, being that it felt like Blair was
drawn towards conclusions that would serve a specific agenda. This may have been a case of
tunnel vision. When reviewing certain arguments, it becomes rather apparent.
You have to question the motive of a person who's willing to be abused, willing to stay in a bad
situation more than someone who's just a asshole who's gonna hurt someone regardless of who it is.
There had to be something more to Blair, something that would elevate herself above the rote anti-SJW
commentator. Well, there was. Her unique perspective and identity, right? Well,
going off the first few videos, it was hard to exactly see how this influenced her worldview,
but this was all about a change very soon.
You know, what are the ramifications of being called a hoe by 40 people?
It'll affect your social life, probably. It's embarrassing, probably.
But what are the ramifications of being accused of being a rapist?
You see, Blair's video responding to the feminist means was an interesting one in particular,
because it definitely showcased a capacity for her to be a bit more assertive. As stated,
there was a mixture of tones in which creators addressed the subjects of their videos. In earlier
uploads, whether you agreed with Blair's conclusions or not, she didn't seem outwardly
hostile, but this in particular seemed to be a pivot towards the combative content often tied to
some of the edgier creators in the genre. At the same time, though, they were memes, and you could
argue that she was at least mirroring the same energy that many of them emanated. It wasn't a
typical Blair White video, no, I think the video of interest comes a couple uploads later.
Hey guys, so one of the things people ask me about pretty often is my opinion on the sort of long list
of arbitrary, obscure gender identities that exist out in the world.
Which video could this be? Maybe it's the one titled Trans mentally challenged. I will expand
on why this is, though once again, mostly serving as casual grounds for our channel's hostess to
spew opinions on a hot topic is also a very relevant video, as for the first time, Blair's
opinion on many trans issues is coming to the forefront of her brand.
So yeah, I think all these identities are largely bullshit, I think they're super arbitrary,
I think they're super meaningless, I think people who take them on are usually extremely
boring and have nothing else for their personality other than I'm demi-queer, non-binary, gender
special snowflake kin, and if you pay attention to these people, you'll notice that very rarely
will you meet someone who identifies as one of these things who is not heavily involved in
political activism to some extent. In the video, she dismisses individuals who lie outside the
traditional gender binary, makes some pretty generalised, presumptive comments about their
status and motives for assuming such identities, and in general comes off as quite elitist.
These people are usually middle class, white, never had to struggle with anything in their life,
but they want to call themselves a suppressed sexual gender minority as a means to silence
any type of opposition they have in any type of political conversation, because in our current
political climate, oppression is a very valuable currency.
Now, I'm sure there are many responses one can formulate to her statements here,
and comments that you and I are itching to make, but now I would like to put a pin on it,
as I think we best keep an open mind and merely say that it serves as a good precedent for the
content that was to follow, that rather noticeable distaste that Blair seemed to possess for those
who fell outside the acceptability range of traditional gender norms. Yes, and as I noted
before, when approaching topics on previous Discourse, even topics pertaining to gender,
like the upload before, she seemed reasonable, but this was a turn, and this persisted in
uploads following as well, not just in her tone, but in her attitude towards others,
and I will elaborate here.
I avoided explicitly mentioning the title of this upload, as it's not a term I tend to indulge,
however, back then it was more than commonplace. In spite of this acknowledgement,
Blair still weaponised it in a rather derogatory manner, and her subsequent uploads,
although having more temperate titles, can often be found to have much more provocative captions
at the time, thanks to Blair's extremely professional thumbnails, and thanks to the archives.
For example, feminist thinks all men are rapists, or triggering trans... gender people.
Damn it Blair, you really love a good slur in the worst of contexts.
I'd like to say she rectified these outer remorse, but given the fact that she's left
offensive terms in other titles, I assume it was to try and stop YouTube from demonetising or age
restricting them, because in other places she's changed them when there really was no offensive
term, just a sensitive word, such as this one where I assume racist obviously set off the YouTube
alarm, so Blair, in a state of pure indolence, changed the title to just minorities,
but as amusing as that is, I will move on for now.
As said, this era was a curious one for sure, particularly for the political community online.
It was one where many felt free from the shackles that had bound them in real life environments,
and some clearly felt a catharsis in expressing themselves in a more unabashed manner.
Nonetheless, I think some of these creators listened to a bit too much Ice Cube and drew
the conclusion that a black person, exclaiming the N-word on a rap track, gave them license to start
directing their decently sized platforms towards other creators, and barraging them with a slew of
pretty relentless content, fortified by slurs that they felt more comfortable firing off due to their
identity. This wasn't exclusive to Blair, Theron, for example, was another person who engaged in
similar antics. However, the fact that many of these comments or insults were often used
in an exclusionary or alienating fashion against people who may have personal history with those
words didn't really justify it.
So Kat Blaque's a YouTuber who's about as balls deep in Tumblr's social justice as one could possibly get,
and balls deep is appropriate because she's a traitor.
100% comedy from Blair White over here, you can tell that she would have surely become a stand-up
if she had not pursued political commentary, but in a way where some may dismiss this as pointless
edginess, critics would often see it as part of a greater ruse, which would be observed in other
videos, with one garnering particular personal heat from myself. Yes, after making multiple response
videos to content that our queen had decreed as cringe, it seems that Miss White had her finger on
the pulse of so many of those around her.
So today I want to talk about why people don't like trans people. I've received thousands upon thousands of
emails, comments, messages from people saying that before finding my channel, they had absolutely
no understanding of trans people, and that they were shocked to find a trans person who was actually
sane.
In this lovely upload, once again amended to have a more restrained headline, she decides to discuss
exactly what the public's problems are with the transgender community, firstly mentioning about her
experiences with many people who previously weren't aware of the existence of sane transgender people,
until they encountered the wonders of Blair White.
Because let's just face it, the majority of the ideas and policies and things that come out of the
trans community and the activists that they prop up to speak for them in the public sphere are insane.
I mean, I personally sometimes feel like I'm just drowning in this huge crowd of people who are screaming
and crying about 97 genders, and I'm just in the back like... I'm not one of them.
The transgender community then becomes this buzzword, and Blair once more sets herself apart,
affirming her opposition to Bill C-16, for example, the controversial Canadian one that saw the rise of
Jordan Peterson, and in this she also calls out the transgender community on other incidents, such as
one where trans activists were allegedly pressuring the midwife community into using gender neutral
terminology, referencing an Infowars article, which could have used a little research in itself,
because most evidence appears to imply that there was little to no evidence of any pressure being
applied at all, but okay, that's one reference, we'll put that aside for now, her point is clear
enough regardless.
But I'm sorry, like I said, acceptance is a two-way street, and behaving like insufferable children who
place emotion-based arguments over fact-based arguments is not a way to get anything done.
There was a moment in time where Blair White just wanted to grill, but that was no longer an option,
and in taking a stand against these trans activists who were making all these unreasonable demands of
society, she was proving that transgender people weren't this monolith that many had previously
assumed them to be, but was anyone ever saying this, and was Blair's narrative really as
altruistic as it appeared to be?
Instead of arguing for the validity of transgenderism on a neurological or physiological level, you guys
instead give up and start screaming and crying about how there's 97 genders, it's like, calm down,
calm it down.
The examples covered in my previous part may have found Blair approaching the aspects of trans issues
from different angles, but they all seem to transport me back to the school playground in a way,
and I'll explain why in a moment.
The channel was always a very personal venture, and this upload was no exception, because although she
proclaims that she is attempting to decipher the issue from within the community, she mostly uses it
as a springboard to pat herself on the back, and tell people who aren't like her to calm down.
And need I remind you that America, and western civilization in general, is the pinnacle of safety and
freedom for trans people, and by the way, that statement is actually true for every group of people
under the sun.
As a trans person, you can't step foot in a single middle eastern country without fear of being
jailed or worse, and the same goes for pretty much every African country.
In America, you have access to transgender medical care, the ability to legally amend your gender,
I can't see a relative probation, Blair.
Basic bitch logic.
Come on.
Is that I think there's a lot more people out there who are opposed to the bat crazy ideas and policies
that come out of the trans community and their activists, rather than trans people themselves.
Because let's just face it, the majority of the ideas and policies and things that come out of the
trans community and the activists that they prop up to speak for them in the public sphere are insane.
I think it was tangible that at the time, people had received an impression of leftism, or at least
certain branches of leftism due to chronicled attitudes of certain activists.
However, to extend that logic to entire demographics and identity groups was ludicrous.
All in all, it felt part of a greater narrative, which aside from being rather egotistical, like
come on, you started your channel after appearing on stream with a transgender woman who espoused
similar talking points at the time, it felt like an attempt to cater to people to win over their
approval by being the quote, cool transgender person.
This may be impudent for me to say, but it felt like the goal of 2016 Blair was her own acceptance,
rather than acceptance of the greater community.
On Twitter and YouTube, she would present herself as the emissary, but I don't think the opposite
could have been more true in a way.
It felt like a playground where she was trying to fit in with a certain clique by ostracising
others, by proving that she was worthy, almost like initiation.
In response to this, you could say that okay, the mainstream was a lot of the time the intolerant
progressive lot, and maybe at her university it was, I'm happy to entertain that, but on YouTube
it was a very different story, and once you take advantage of the power that you have to belittle
others in your own domain, then you're no better than those you chastise so fervently.
This can be embodied more than it is in the title, and once again, Blair had initially,
and quite ironically, used a slur in presenting why some people just don't really like transgender
individuals. Now, some transgender individuals may be okay or comfortable with that, but many aren't,
and already addressing a group of people in such a way is going to breed division and provocation.
Really, you could make the argument that Blair was validating using slurs in such a manner,
that's only really going to win one side over and provoke the other, and when they are inevitably
provoked, Blair will just tell them to calm down again and high five all her edgy friends.
Having someone who set the bar so low for trans acceptance could make it easy for people to accept
her, and reject other trans people who in many ways weren't making unbelievably preposterous
demands from those around them, and you could make the argument that those people were never
going to accept other transgender individuals regardless, and that Blair was at least making
some level of acceptance somewhat accessible, maybe she provided a ramp into the transgender
community. I think this would be a somewhat valid response on the surface, and that in many ways,
Blair's position as a moderate could have been used to facilitate discourse between two separate
camps, but this never fully materialised because she only aligned herself with the ideas of one of
them, and Blair never really made an effort to facilitate acceptance of people, sometimes quite
the opposite, in fact, because her own bar of acceptance was high and sometimes rather uneven,
and would lead one to wonder what sort of environment her own principles would lead to.
Case in point, the following situation.
Would you date someone who's trans?
No.
Would you date someone who's black?
Maybe.
Would you date someone who's fat?
No.
Would you date someone who's disabled?
One of the common recipients of Blair White's responses was a creator by the name of Riley
Dennis. She was known for her takes at the time, which many found contentious, particularly given
the era where she posted a preponderance of her political opinions in. I have to admit that I
disagreed with a lot of what she had to say at the time, and I still probably wouldn't align with
a fair proportion of what she said then today. However, disagreement is a healthy constituent
of academic discourse, and the online sphere should be fertile ground to nurture productive
discussion. However, Blair's demeanour towards Riley isn't what one would always characterise
as, well, healthy. The first video released on Blair's thoughts on trans special people
is a response to a now-deleted Riley Dennis video, which asserts that feminism isn't about
hating men, amongst many other things. At this point, Riley was identifying as a non-binary
trans woman. However, throughout the video, Blair refers to Riley as a he for reasons that
are not explicitly clarified, but one can assume are in line with those expressed in the upload
prior. I can't believe it's 2016 and we still have to talk about this. Okay, right off the bat,
he's using the current year as an argument. In another video where she contends Riley's
assertion that misgendering is violence, Blair generally avoids referring to Riley under any
pronouns whatsoever, an option she probably thought was decidedly smarter given the topic.
After concluding that misgendering is not violence but still a dick move, she takes the time to
express her feelings on the matter of Riley's gender. And Riley, you seem to be really upset
that people don't refer to you as she everywhere you go, but can you really blame them? Like,
honestly, you call yourself a woman and a trans woman, but you actively talk about how you won't
take hormones, and hormone therapy and surgery in some cases are what's actually going to give you
those secondary sex characteristics that allow people to visually perceive you as a woman,
Now, her statements on what Riley said are completely false, but we'll cross that bridge soon,
we have other antics to address first. In tweets around this time, Blair was still taking more than
enough liberties on labelling Riley under male pronouns, once more reaffirming her sentiments
on the transition, and proudly undermining any neutrality conveyed in that YouTube video,
and a couple months later, Blair returned back to using male pronouns in her upload.
In spite of this, Blair had also still used a heralded transgender slur in titles referring
to Riley's uploads, which I find surprising if you didn't actually believe Riley to be transgender,
really having your cake and eating it there. I have to say that I found what was flip-flopping
at best, and straight up self-contradiction at worst, and some other things as well,
rather confusing. Is this what bridging the gap looks like? Well, maybe that's not what it
appears, maybe over time Blair worked up this theory in her head regarding Riley, and in an
upload posted to YouTube on June the 18th 2017, her theories come to the forefront of the
commentary, with multiple backhanded comments about Blair's thoughts on the severity of Riley's
gender identity. What were these thoughts?
Riley, I know you're having trouble with this whole transition thing, mainly that you haven't
done it. You know, if you went on estrogen, your sex drive wouldn't be so high, and you wouldn't
be guilt tripping people into having sex with you. Just saying. But if anyone calls you a white
supremacist, you deny it. If anyone accuses you of guilt tripping lesbians into sucking your dick,
by saying you're trans, deny it.
Blair's suspicions were very clear. Riley's existence as a trans person was merely political
and self-serving, and that in time this would be revealed, as she wouldn't follow through on her
transitioning properly. Why won't Riley take the estrogen, and what would it tell us about her?
Ooh, well...
Hey everybody, so today, the day this video is going live, I'm going to be on my way to
San Francisco in preparation for my facial feminization surgery, or FFS for short.
Somebody was about to have their well-deliberated theory swiftly debunked,
leaving us to wonder if these playground hijinks were really worthwhile.
...
Several large YouTubers have been peddling the myth that I'm not really trans for well over a year
now. They say I'm not a true trans because they claim I'm not taking any steps to transition,
like not taking hormones and not having surgery.
On June the 26th, 2017, Riley Dennis would upload a video, basically expressing what I would say
to the theories advocated by Blair and others in the community around this time,
that it's none of their f***ing business, and that her status as a trans person shouldn't depend on
what procedures she's embarking on.
These people who vehemently hate me, and make videos misgendering me, and insulting me,
and making assumptions about my personal life, they feel entitled to information about my
personal life, but I don't owe them that. I don't owe anyone that.
What happens in my personal life is nobody's business but my own.
What medications I take, what surgeries I have, what steps I take to transition,
all of that is my business, and nobody else is entitled to that.
Especially not strangers on the internet.
I have every right to keep all of that information to myself.
Being trans is not defined by hormones or surgery.
Surgeries and hormones do not change your gender identity.
External things like that do not affect your internal sense of gender.
Which is what being trans is.
So I don't want this to come across as me trying to prove that I'm a good trans now.
I will be just as trans after FFS as I was before FFS.
And I refuse to throw other trans people under the bus just because they don't take
hormones or haven't had surgery or don't pass.
Because I think that's a really gross way of gatekeeping who's allowed in the trans community.
However, it doesn't stop there because Riley also reveals that she will be actively
undergoing facial feminization surgery in the next few weeks,
and had already been receiving hormone replacement therapy for almost a year,
leaving those like Blair who had been chastised and Riley
pretty ferociously in the public sphere, and all these theories out to dry.
I'll add that our progressive friend here didn't come unprepared,
dropping an ample sum of receipts to reinforce just how unsubstantiated
many of these claims made about her identity were.
All these claims by other YouTubers that I haven't been on hormones were just
completely fabricated lies not based on anything I've ever said.
In fact, a couple months ago, I got really worried about this.
I knew that I hadn't talked about hormones since I had started them,
but I thought maybe I had said something before that?
So I searched through my Twitter timeline for any mentions of hormones or HRT,
and I only found two tweets where I talked about hormones in relation to myself.
One was from over a year ago, and I said I was planning on starting hormones as soon
as I moved back to the US. The second one was also from over a year ago,
and it was me saying that I was planning to start HRT soon.
That's it. Those are the only times I've ever tweeted about hormones or HRT in relation to
myself, and I was literally saying that I was planning to take hormones.
Anybody who took half a second to search through my Twitter could have found this information.
So I think I'm going to be starting hormones. I don't know about surgeries or anything like that
yet. It's all kind of up in the air for me. But I have proof from YouTube and Twitter that
I'm right, and they're wrong. They've been maliciously and intentionally spreading lies about me.
Obviously, at approximately half an hour in total, there's a little more discussed than what I've
spoken about now, but as a scaling clap back to many of the conspiracists, the video served its
purpose, placing the ball quite squarely back into Blair's court. Now, as Riley had indicated,
Blair wasn't the sole proponent of this narrative. However, as a reasonably sized creator and a
transgender woman herself, it was pretty imperative that this little blunder be addressed.
So on June the 29th, three days after Riley's shocking revelations, Blair uploads,
I'm sorry.
Okay, so this is a video that I really did not expect to ever make, ever, but those are always the most
interesting ones, right?
In this video, Blair takes responsibility for advancing the narrative that Riley was what many at the
time regarded as a trans-trender, the political leeches. However, she also expands on the reasoning
for what led her to such a conclusion, which I personally find a little dubious.
One of the biggest things that I took issue with was that I assumed that Riley was taking on
a transgender identity and label for political purposes, a trans-trender. Now, I had a lot of
reasons to believe this. The first being statements from Riley about growing up and never questioning
their gender. As a trans person myself, that's very weird to hear, because growing up, my earliest
memories in life were that of questioning my gender and of questioning the gender role that I
was expected to fill. So, as a trans person, I couldn't get in the headspace of what? How did you
never question it? Another example is Riley's statements that trans people don't always want to
transition. And again, as a trans person who's known many trans people, I couldn't wrap my head
around that because, for me, the transition was incredibly paramount. It was the key to me living
the fulfilled life that I live now. I was also under the assumption, as hundreds of thousands
of other people were, that Riley had no desire to transition and that Riley was not transitioning,
that Riley was just taking on the label of trans with no real action behind it.
In retrospect, it's easy to say these justifications seem rather flimsy. Anyone may grow up without
questioning certain aspects of their identity, particularly in certain environments, and to doubt
the veracity of a person's gender because they have the courage to admit that seems extremely
cynical. And Blair's other reason basically being that she went along with the mass consensus is
barely a reason at all. Nonetheless, she had to explain her rationale whether it made sense or
not. If that was the impression she received, then so be it. And once that was out of the way,
she cut to the chase. And to be fair, her reflection is pretty strong and suitably
self-critical. But the incessant push to prove that Riley was not trans and just realizing
was probably really hurtful. And I'm aware that there's no way I would have known before the
video where Riley actually discloses this information, but I feel like I was still in
the wrong for trying to assume what was in someone's heart and mind when there was just
simply no way I could have known. And make no mistake, it should have been. In many ways,
it was starting to sink in that there was a toxicity in this online community that she was
contributing to. Beyond just the narratives of making assumptions about transgender individuals
deciding who is truly trans or not, there are other statements she had made. For example,
this one towards fellow trans woman Steph Sanjati in 2016. When Steph tagged another trans woman to
ask why Blair has to attack their appearance when she clearly has no clue what she's doing,
Blair decides to jump in on the statement to inform Steph that she looks like a linebacker,
is so extra and unnecessary. In this specific case, I think Blair misconstrued Steph's comment
as an attack on her appearance rather than just going out of her way to offend, but it was
indicative of how antagonistic she had become, how skeptical her own perception towards many of
those she shared experiences with was. A much worse situation included her making a rather
mean-spirited comment in response to a video by a person who was posting about her own experiences,
once again, going at her ability to pass as a woman.
So one thing has become pretty apparent since starting my YouTube channel, and that is that the
trans community hates me. Throughout her time on YouTube, she had made a deal about being the
public enemy of many of these trans women, how they hated her, how some couldn't be as good looking,
how they weren't as pretty, and beyond all the complex theories that could arise as to why she
did this, it was simply rather catty behavior. As her platform grew, having such demeanor that
could influence the actions of viewers, particularly towards the subjects of her videos,
some of whom transgender, this could easily cause unintended grief, and Blair wouldn't want that,
especially as someone who had experienced that personally. With reference to the video about
misgendering, she was at risk of becoming everything she had criticized in the past.
At the end of the day, personal ideology transcends identity, so singling transgender people out in the
way that Blair did on the basis of political disagreements alone wasn't really the most
salubrious for either party.
And I'm someone who's had my transition picked apart online. There have been Reddit threads
and 4chan threads with hundreds of comments on it of people trying to prove that I'm not trans
because I haven't done this or that, or, you know, digging up my old pictures, and, you know,
I'm a strong person, I'm a happy person, but to sit here and pretend like it doesn't affect me
at all would just be a lie. So the thought that this entire time I've done that exact same thing
to someone else, and pushed that off on someone else, f*** with me, and I'm f***ing sorry.
Now, I think there were some who probably doubted the sincerity of this apology.
At the end of the day, this was an narrative maintained over a year by an individual who,
given her own self-admitted personal experiences, should have known better,
have at the same time as a person who did have some authority within the community,
speaking out on the matter would at least cause some to listen to her who may not otherwise
relented. Maybe the growth and the community she was in had taken her on a bit of a power trip,
and this was the warranted yank back down to earth she needed.
You know, this whole thing has really taught me a lesson that I should really try to stick to ideas,
opinions, policy, rather than, like, trying to get in someone's head and, like, make judgments
about something that's so personal and so nuanced.
To many, this appeared to be a turning point in Blair's content, as she committed to making
her videos more focused on their political roots, and gravitating away from the petty remarks and
character judgments that had landed her in hot water this time. Whether Riley accepted it herself
we'll never know, though she did upload a video just over a month later discussing how to make
a good apology video. Although not mentioning Blair's video at any point, and using a different
example completely to illuminate her thesis, it was a bit coincidental for some, and seemingly
reignited the feud between the two creators, even causing the video to be temporarily taken down
in the process due to flagging. Fantastic. But deep breaths, Blair still had a new leaf to turn over,
we were going to talk about political content, and a bit of a Twitter spat between old nemeses
isn't substantial enough to say that she had returned to old habits, no. As the content went,
it looked like there was a new direction for Blair, and to be honest, maybe it was the fresh start
she needed.
I'm going to open this part by at least defending Blair White to a certain degree, I know, I even
surprise myself sometimes. As much as I have detailed aspects of her channel, and her behaviour
in a pretty critical light, it's important to recognise the zeitgeist, and how that may have
influenced her comportment. I know that to many people, even myself, that it may have seemed like
she was pandering to seek approval from the online crowd, but throughout that period, and even up to
this day, one of the prevalent narratives espoused by individuals from within this realm was that
these ideas were the counterculture. This was a pushback against the mainstream ideologies enforced
by oppressive neoterics who didn't even want to allow room for discussion. Blair had been there
herself, she'd set foot in the liberal university campuses, and encountered that environment first
hand. That edginess that some wanted to shut down was part of that movement, it was greater back
then. In her own mind, Blair may have felt she was the one fighting back by saying what she said,
she was joining the resistance, and this attitude that she adopted was part of that movement. That
she wasn't pandering, she was adapting, and many other people did the same. Channels from all genres
probably said stuff they would never be caught saying to date, many commentators being no
exception. Here, the idea lingered that maybe some of Blair's antics were in part a product of their
era, like some of the other creators who had also been in that position as well, and had since
reformed themselves. How this would only be answered by a content, and how it would develop in relation
to the evolving YouTube ecosystem. With the observed incident grounding her, this would definitely
be a chance to realign those values.
I'm not infallible, I've definitely, you know, over the course of doing political commentary for the
past almost two years, I know I've probably said things that are not true, thinking they were true,
I've definitely accidentally spread fake news, and I'm definitely not calling myself a fact machine.
2017 was an interesting time, in my opinion, it was when the pushback against presiding
anti-SJW narratives on YouTube began to gather momentum,
and the science says we're all on a spectrum, um, no, um,
this didn't necessarily quell the strength of certain commentators, but it definitely meant that
a lot of discourse appeared to grow more balanced, with certain perspectives no longer going
unchallenged. Alongside this, with certain US policy in particular skewing in concerning directions,
it became more difficult for some to argue that conservatism was this oppressed political
underdog. However, there was never an absence of content to tune online, for a creator of any
leading, and Blair was never starved for content. Blair never positioned herself as a disillusioned
liberal like some of her colleagues, she was a conservative, and rather proud of the fact.
Nonetheless, there were a few key issues that she liked to weigh in on, ones that didn't necessarily
fall too clearly on a liberal-conservative spectrum, more coming down to questions of common sense,
and in the months following her apology to Riley Dennis, she appeared to readjust her trajectory,
to present a more balanced perspective on political affairs that would reflect the current
landscape. According to police reports, and not sensationalized headlines, this occurred in a
private residence, in an apartment, and it just happened to have occurred in a bathroom, and the
person was a family friend. It was not stranger danger, it was not stranger trannies in the
bathroom gonna get you danger, it just wasn't. Ian Miles Chong claimed straight up that it happened
in a public bathroom. For example, this video corrects misinformation surrounding a transgender
individual convicted of sexual assault, and the factually incorrect claims made by someone on the
right that this had occurred in a public restroom. Or we could talk about the upload at the start of
2018, where she reacted to some of her older content that she no longer associates with,
and although still being somewhat mitigated in her self-criticism, still demonstrates awareness
of her errors. So there's been a bunch of pictures and videos that have come out that have led people
to believe that she has some sort of neurological disorder, or, you know, she's generally just
unfit to be president because she's ill. By the way, I still think Hillary Clinton is
actually the devil, but I regret doing this video. She may have very well been sick,
but the evidence I used in this video is reaching at best. It's so flimsy, it's so weak,
and I'm surprised more people didn't call me out on it, honestly. All of these examples show growth
from previous incidents, hopefully allowing her to move towards being a more recent and
independent voice within the community. Throughout this period, Blair also seemed to pivot back
towards more introspective videos that spoke about her personal life and development in her
transition. There was a fair bit that warranted praise, and I don't want to understate that.
At the same time, there were still signs that aspects of her content indulged perspectives
without being fully transparent in the delivery of that information, such as the Trump hat in
Hollywood video.
Hey guys, so today is a bit of a different kind of video. We're doing a social experiment video.
You guys know I've been doing on the street stuff, and Joey and I had this sick idea of walking
around West Hollywood, which is the gay area of Hollywood, and just, you know, wearing a little
hat that we think people would be really upset about.
Now, on the surface, this is a standard intolerant left video, and obviously, when witnessing violence
against someone, many would feel naturally shocked. In the description, a disclaimer sits informing
viewers that Blair and her partner did not act in any way that would have provoked the attacks,
implying the hats were the only variable of interest here. This caught the eye of many on
social media given its content, and led to some circulation and interest from those outside her
typical audience. Nonetheless, this also reached the fact checking website Snopeskin, who contacted
the Los Angeles Police Department, and were informed that Blair and her husband had crossed the
dividing line set up specifically to prevent any physical altercation. Now, does this justify the
behavior of those depicted in the video? No, but at the same time, it's hardly wearing a Trump hat
in Hollywood, moreover, wearing it to an anti-Trump protest. I'll add the caveat that she does have a
drink thrown in her face at the end of the video, which, although Snopes cast suspicion on comparing
her to Alex Jones, I don't really think it's completely fair, and could well have happened.
At the same time, given the framing, doubt is obviously going to be inevitable, and given how
heavily edited the video is, it's hard to arbitrate exactly what happened, but maybe that's just
clickbait for you. Nonetheless, certain concerns, however, go beyond a single video.
You know, these other beasts, let me not say beasts, but these other people who are pressuring
people to be with them, it's growth. Yes, I'd say there are still comments present that showcased
her rather flippant nature and desire to one-up those she viewed unfavorably, but these were asides
and a far cry from what she had perpetuated in the past. We can all be divas from time to time,
can't we?
I mean, let's be honest, most of the people who complain about this kind of thing are the worst
people, the most undateable, cringy, miserable individuals, just very tacky.
Well, I don't know, but as we move further into 2018, she seemed to distance herself more and more
from the political community that she had previously shared propriety with. Her content
gravitated towards topics that felt more vlog-oriented in a way, and this inevitably
yielded some questions from viewers who were familiar with her more outspoken self. Although
I think many were expecting a new direction, this certainly was a different flavour. Eventually,
she'd upload a video explaining exactly why she'd done this, and the reasons behind it,
and to be fair to her, many of them seemed quite justified and believable.
So the simplest answer as to why I've steered away from politics, at least recently, and at least for
now, maybe not forever, is that quite frankly, I guess just the best way to put it is politics,
and political commentary specifically, has effed up my life. The FBI incidents, the going out in
public and having people try to fight me, the doxing, the stalking, the people entering my
building, all that kind of stuff, my family being harassed, and you know, I am at such a place where
I feel like, has it been worth it? I moved to LA almost a year ago, and one thing about LA is
there's a lot of work here, so a lot of other political commentators, other people who you guys
know, I'm not talking about obscure people here, a lot of them either live in LA or they're
constantly in and out for work, filming something, doing whatever they do, so I've met almost all of
them. People have either been on their show, or on a show with them, or I went to a dinner with them,
an event with them, or I became close with some of them. The amount of them that I've met that
have told me either directly or in a roundabout way that's very clear, that they don't believe
everything that they say that they believe when they're on camera, a lot of them just flat out
don't believe, they're just actors. Grifters, threats, doctors, they're all plausible in such
a polarizing community with such potential, and if you can't handle that, then it's understandable
that you'd want to take a step back. It'd make anyone feel rather dirty once they've been exposed
to it long enough, and the video itself feels like Blair finally washing her hands of such
toxicity. This was the movement we needed. BLAIR It comes in such extremes, it's like something
really amazing will happen, and I'll get like the coolest opportunity ever, but then something
really effing terrible will happen, and it's these crazy highs and lows that I feel like are a lot
more extreme than if I just did other types of content that make me equally as happy, you know?
But were those hands as clean as they appeared?
BLAIR That venting session was so necessary. When I say it was so necessary, it was so
necessary. It felt amazing. The video about why Blair changed seemed pretty conclusive in the
moment, rather scaling towards many aspects of the community and even the media beyond that,
ending on a rather affirmative note that would cause many to assume that she was mostly finished
with political content, at least for a while. However, it seems the contrary appeared to be the
case. In fact, it looked as though Blair's open venting made her feel more reassured in returning
topics that she had distanced herself from, and after a month interval, she returned to a schedule
of more politically oriented content. I'm not entirely sure why, it's not like many of the
concerns that she had outlined in her video could subside. In fact, you could argue her shedding
light on them had only heightened the attention they could receive, but if that's how she felt,
then that's her prerogative. BLAIR Hi, so I know I said in the last video that I wasn't gonna talk
about politics anymore. That was a lie. I'm a liar, because women lie. Just kidding, that was
a joke, and probably not fitting for this video, but… Well, I appreciate the honesty, Blair. Her
first video back was a response to the slogan Believe All Women, a rather contentious phrase
which some advocates claim has been unfairly conflated with the similar, though not identical,
Believe Women. As you can probably assume, Blair's position on the slogan was unsurprisingly quite
critical, though not necessarily making the distinction mentioned prior. Nevertheless,
the video was well received, and she appeared to return to her routine schedule of content.
This may have spiked some unease amongst those still skeptical of her intentions, especially
considering some of the clickbait and chosen subjects, but hope may have been instilled as
she appeared to stand by her reformed demeanor and refrain from shabby character attacks,
even reconciling with one of the individuals she had previously been rather insensitive towards,
and recognising her responsibility. So all in all, we could say there was progress made, correct?
Well, let's not get ahead of ourselves, because again, as time elapsed, it felt like this was
waning. So today I have one of the cringiest videos I have seen in a long time on the
interweb. I mean, the content itself was still lightweight at best and a bit misleading at the
worst. I know it's kind of Blair's style to not create the most demanded content, but conversely,
I think there are videos which just end up failing rather in their portrayal of the source material,
and once again fall back onto this idea of catering to a perspective. Now, obviously,
anyone would be pleased that her content is less incendiary than it was before, but at the same
time, having many prominent flaws and just subtracting the evident offensiveness previously
present doesn't necessarily make it good. And make no mistake, there isn't a great divergence
from precursory output. This video where she responds to a notoriously unpopular Teen Vogue
upload. Now, there are certainly points in the original that could be disputed,
but a load of Blair's arguments are pretty lazy, too.
Blair- This idea that the body is either male or female is totally wrong, and I am living proof of
that. She literally just said that she's proof of that and didn't explain why. Like, it went on to
the next scene. Blair, she literally elaborates on this later on in the section. Blair- I identify
as an intersex woman. I have gone through surgeries that have really stuck with me through
my whole life and affected a lot of different parts of my life just so that I can fit into this box
of female. The video's over seven minutes long, and these segments are even shorter, so you'd need
to have a pretty short attention span to miss it. And as said, it's not an infallible upload,
but she skips over so much of it and responds to the parts where she can drop a sassy takedown
comment, some which doesn't even work in the greater context of the original video. Another
example would be the classic The Mob Tried To Cancel Me Again upload, where Blair is rather
angry that an event she was part of hosted by Walk Away, a prominent LGBT movement promoting
exodus of the Democratic Party, was moved last minute due to an open letter and accompanying
dossier published by online communities, documenting what they had deemed as behaviour
contrary to the values of the venue hosting the event. She initially scolded the LGBT Center for
their decision to refuse their guests, and all the fans they would inevitably put out of pocket with
the impending cancellation, a comment that some would deem slightly ironic given that she was
accused of doing the same one and a half years prior for a debate with their admirer and
contrapoints, another trans creator on the left of the spectrum whom she had debated previously.
However, that was a while back, and so was a lot of what she had been accused of in this dossier,
so she took to YouTube to defend herself.
Today I am going to be addressing the mob, but more specifically, what I wanted to address in
this video is the petition that was sent to the LGBT Center from activists online to have me
deplatformed. The petition and what they were saying was absolutely just riddled with
misrepresentations, lies, exaggerations, and just bullshit about me. So we're going to go over some
pictures right now that people love to bring up when they're trying to ruin something for me.
People are claiming that that photo is me holding up a white supremacist hand signal. So to address
that specifically, so stupid I have to, this is again an okay hand signal. This is not a white
supremacist hand signal. In the video, however, Blair picks out two isolated examples from the
document in question, and even then somehow manages to take one of them out of context.
So here's another photo people love digging up from 2016, a photo of me apparently in blackface.
This is all well and good, but she's omitted the caption, and this caption was present in the
document, so there's no real reason to do this otherwise unless you view it as strictly irrelevant
to the discourse, which I would find unlikely personally. Now, does this make the offense
terrible or even comparable to a lot of what is normally considered blackface? Not necessarily,
because if you donned it with the primary intent of being a beauty treatment, then that's important
information. However, it was still posted to social media as a reference to blackface,
and that is of interest, and Blair was aware of that. However, instead, we have to deal with the
incredulous tone and touch from the astounded commentator who puts all these bottom feeders
in their place. It's strange to me because it doesn't seem like a point that's impossible to
respond to in its full context, and yet it was still watered down. Even with this considered,
there's a lot of the document that Blair just doesn't respond to at all. Some of it I can
understand, she doesn't consider it a big deal. Other parts, well.
When videos are like this, I just wonder why they're even made at all, and maybe that's what
I get for making videos as long as I do. Yet, it seemed for every step Blair took forward,
they were offset by shortcomings that could have been alleviated if she'd been a bit more
meticulous or upfront in the material she presented, and that for someone who valued facts
and information so much, they could really be lacking sometimes, for the most pointless reasons
as well. It's hard to fully diagnose what was going on, because it never felt fully malicious,
just very lackluster, and I received the impression that maybe Blair was becoming
tired of her content, maybe she was on autopilot, maybe she needed a new calling.
Well, as we move deeper into 2019, it seems she may have found it.
So, I guess it's time to introduce a side character, this is an individual by the name of
Jessica Yaniv. She first hit the headlines in mid-2019 after filing multiple complaints with
the British Columbia Human Rights Tribunal as she was refused Brazilian waxes by beauticians,
and seeking damages from each individual involved. She claimed this was discrimination
on the basis of her transgender identity, however, the defendants contested they were not comfortable
or experienced with her genitalia, which included a phallus. There's a lot that takes my interest
regarding this case that could be discussed in the future, but for now, all I'll say is that there
are many that understandably didn't sympathize with her plight, and questioned her intentions
in initiating these proceedings given certain details. Additionally, others following the
situation decided to dig further into her antics, discovering a consistent pattern of rather
inappropriate and predatory behaviour, provoking condemnation and backlash towards the controversial
figure. However, it appears there was another person with an eye on the debacle, Blair White.
Now, Blair had perhaps signaled her intent to pursue a new direction a week before,
although once again not in the most graceful form, after she had confused a Twitter user by the name
of Princess Steph with a TikTok predator by the name of Mama Steph, in full-fledged serving the
wrong Chris Hansen style. She had deleted these tweets shortly after realising her error, though
I'm not ever sure if amends were made. Nonetheless, a good few days later, she probably felt on more
sure-footing as she launched a pretty extensive attack on Yaniv, who she branded decisively in
her upload as the Trans-Predator.
This week, this is trans activist Jessica Yaniv. Now, this person is the walking, talking, living and breathing
embodiment of what people fear when it comes to trans people. I do not believe this is a trans woman.
I believe this is a predator posing as a trans woman. Now, make no mistake, none of these messages
are how women talk to each other or trans women talk to women or anyone. Yaniv clearly has an
obsession with, you know, feminine products and women and girls, and it's incredibly disturbing,
and this needs to be called out.
The video delineates the evidence accumulated against Jessica, while also discussing the greater
impact on the trans community, and how the general public may regard it, lambasting the activists
who haven't spoken out.
"-This. Why are you silent when this type of thing comes up? This should be part of your job.
It should be part of your job as an activist who wants to apparently put trans people in a better
light and better social standing. It is important for us to distance ourselves from this. I'm not
here to police what, you know, other trans public figures do with their social media and with their
platform, but they seem to complain about a lot of stuff, right? And I know they've seen this.
So maybe to those people, I would ask when you're writing, you know, your 17th tweet about how bad I
am, maybe use one tweet to be like, that's not us. This is horrible."
In many ways, these assertions don't feel out of place for a standard Blair White video,
but the narrative of exposing someone for such egregious behavior appeared to provide it with
greater moral foundations, attracting praise from a broad spectrum of viewers, and Craig galvanizing
her ratings and engagement like seldom before. And when a formula works, and you seem to be
enjoying it like Blair was, you pursue it a bit further.
I feel like this channel is becoming a predator hunter channel, and I'm actually 100% okay with it.
So a few more videos go up on the matter. A couple of these continue to follow the Yuneve saga,
including a blatant live stream in which both the participants clash heads pretty explosively.
They discuss a medley of subjects, with Blair occasionally just driving home the very
pertinent point of how much more attractive than Jessica she is, instead of merely calling Yuneve
out for her blatant bigotry.
Overall though, I think it does contain some interesting character indictments about Yuneve
so I won't complain too much on that front. However, some may begin to question this general
direction on the basis that Blair's content was portraying transgender individuals in a negative
light. After all, what does a person's identity have to do with how they behave? Well, in another
video about an individual who Blair believed to be enacting sexual roleplay disguised as transgender
activism, she appears to explain this justification.
But what we don't need is people who are not even trans, enacting this predatory behaviour under the
guise of being trans, under the blanket, the protection of being trans, really. People like
Jessica Yuneve and people like Stephanie actually use the trans label as a protective force field
to stop people from criticising their predatory behaviour. It's not who they are, it is their
scapegoat. Similar to her Jessica Yuneve video, it's clear that she feels there are certain people
who are masquerading their rather sick depravity under the veil of the transgender label, and as a
transgender person herself, Blair wants nothing to do with that, she wants to let people know that
such behaviour has no place in her community. I suppose it's an understandable sentiment when you
have an activist community who you want to set yourself apart from, but I think you also have to
be wary that you avoid perpetuating the conflation yourself, that you're not just pouring fuel onto
the fire to then try and put it out. Blair seemed pretty pleased with this direction, even dropping
an Onision video in the process, who isn't trans as far as I know, how there were still
a couple red flags that maybe she was a bit too emboldened by her newfound penchant for exposing
people. Blair and drag queens are brought into public libraries, elementary schools, preschools,
kindergartens, to read to children, and they come in drag, and it's supposed to be this thing that's
very mind-opening for children, it's just this super woke thing. So meet this man, Albert Garza,
drag queen performer, has performed numerous times at Drag Queen Story Hour to underage young
children, and what do you know, he's a convicted predator, but is somehow still allowed to read to
children as a drag queen. In this video, she decided to cover a predator who was participating
in the drag queen program, providing it with a title as endearing as ever. However, when
initially released, it had this thumbnail. What's the problem? Well, the problem is that this drag
queen in the thumbnail has nothing to do with any of the charges actually mentioned in the video.
In fact, the only acknowledgement of this person is at the start, where they're once again so
tastefully placed alongside the news report of the actual offender's conviction.
Bringing drag performers together with little kids is kind of a perfect relationship. I'm hoping what
the kids get out of coming to story time is an opportunity to see that things that are different
aren't scary. Relationships and gender identities and everything.
A revelation that a registered sex offender participated in a story time for children might
be surprising in and of itself. When called out for this, Blair did make the change relatively
quickly, but it does lead one to wonder how many times this can happen. I don't really like the
video much either. It felt like the reservoir for such content was already running dry,
especially given the fact that the video once again just sucks. And to make matters worse,
there's a library board in Wichita that can't seem to agree. They can't come to a clear consensus
on whether or not convicted child predators should be reading to their kids as drag queens.
I'm not joking. It's a thing. This article states board members were split between those who said
registered sex offenders should be automatically disqualified from ever giving a talk at the
library and those who said it should be allowable in some circumstances. What circumstances is it
okay for a predator to speak to kids? Blair, have you heard of scrolling down?
It's literally written there in the article. The exceptions that could be considered. You can
disagree or dispute them, but you can't act like they don't exist and get all hot and bothered when
they're right there. Talk about due diligence. Deep breaths. Focus. Focus. But what I am saying,
which is what something that LGBT advocates don't seem to ever get through their head,
is that sometimes you guys are so lax and so interested in being woke that you leave the
door open for this. Stop. Like I hate to constantly get all think of the children on you,
but think of the children. Okay. I have to admit that I'm feeling rather faint and
I need to sleep this frustration off.
Okay, let's regather myself. Where were we? Nobody likes predatory behavior. It can be pretty much
universally denounced, and Blair going after people who had acted in such a way was a gold
mine, whether always completely accurate in the assertions she made or not. However, it also
bestowed Blair with power that she'd previously not been accustomed with, this social gravitas,
a currency of credibility that extended beyond a political plea. This like complete change of heart,
if in person you weren't so fake. I continue seeing how fraudulent they are and how gross of a
community or genre of content that is. Um, it's starting to again affect my willingness to be
part of that community. And obviously all doesn't mean literally all. There's two or three good ones,
but the overwhelming majority and those people that you guys know are just liars.
Now, when she made the video about why she changed, it may not have served her channel
much purpose in the context of the political content that followed almost immediately after,
but it did begin to cement a distancing from certain highly polarizing figures that,
throughout much of the channel's early stages, she found herself rather congenial with. The
political community that was once rather tight knit in 2016 had definitely divided itself in the
years ensuing, to those who had become more amenable to leftism like Sean Head, for example,
and those who were still quite resistant to it. And this would only become more lucid as time
transpired. Both of them very much. I really do like both of them, but it's become obvious that
Sean Head is becoming radicalized towards communism. And in fact, I, with my burner
accounts on Twitter, tweeted at her, look, dude, by the end of the year at this rate,
you're going to be a communist. And she replied with never, and then deleted that tweet. And
all we see now is this radical cascade into what appears to be just full communism. And I'm just
staggered by it. Blair was no different in this sense, at least. 2016 Blair hung around with a
very different crew than her 2019 entourage. The strange detail in Blair's situation is that she
maintained a lot of her narratives that remain critical of communities that she'd always been
outspoken about. However, pairing them with topics that expose predators appeared to win over a
larger audience and push her more into the mainstream. Finishing this saga off on the
Onision video was a fitting end, especially given the apolitical nature of despising him. Hating
people who behave in such a manner transcends politics. And even if you don't agree with
Blair, a lot of people found it in themselves to look past their differences to support her
crusade. In a way, it's what finally made her mainstream, which is a pretty incredible feat,
considering less than a few months ago she was lamenting cancellation of the walk away event
due to the antics of her and her peers, and her continued involvement with that movement since.
However, as soon as she'd embraced her new direction, she once again shifted course back
to more political content. This was fair enough, I suppose. She likely would have received flack
for over stigmatising the community if she'd only spoken out the worst of the worst through
her archetypal lens. On the flip side, though, there wasn't any greater cause that could shield
her from criticism for shortcomings that may be present in her content, so it was more imperative
than ever that she be rigorous and balanced in her presentation. Was she, though? Well, I mean,
let's tackle the three most prevalent issues with Blair White throughout this video so far.
Poor research, reckless insensitivity, and I suppose what many would regard as invalidation.
The last one you'd hope would be a mostly outdated criticism, given the fact that she'd
obviously acknowledged how unfair she'd been in the past towards trans women who didn't pass
enough in her eyes, and how she wanted to move back to more serious, sensible content. However,
the upload after this exposing phase, she uploaded a video called The Truth About Contrapoints and
Non-Binary, covering an incident that transpired in the political community at that time,
where Contra would face some pretty hostile resistance after expressing her predilection
towards attitudes and environments with a more traditional approach to gender roles over the
hyper-woke spaces. Obviously, this is a person sharing their experiences and thoughts, and even
if you disagree or think it could have been worded more sensitively, some people definitely
overreacted. However, Blair had her own take. Well, maybe her opinion has reformed since then.
Speaking of transition, from what I can see, the overwhelming majority of non-binary people
do not transition. They don't get surgery, they don't get hormones, etc. Of course,
there are some, and there's gonna be someone in the comments, I know of someone, okay, well,
you know of someone. In terms of gender, I have about as much in common with a non-binary person
as I do my fiancé, who is not trans, just a guy, because he stayed at point A, just like
non-binary people do. No, not really. In fact, her video is packed with a large set of assumptions
about the non-binary community, not really backed up with any proof or evidence, appearing kind of
pissed off, to be honest.
So, non-binary is a topic that comes up on my channel in passing, but I've never really gone
in-depth about my feelings towards non-binary people, non-binary as a concept,
in terms of gender, obviously, and this person insisted that they were trans as well. They were
the same thing as me, right? This person was born male, presents as male, has not transitioned to
anything but male, doesn't mind going by male pronouns, but yet I'm supposed to accept that I'm
the same thing as this person. I'm sorry, but I'm not.
I also can't really endorse her assertion that this is the first proper time she's made her feeling
apparent on the matter. I think she's been pretty clear, even in the midst of her hiatus from the
political community, she uploaded a video where she reacts to a non-binary individual with her
friend and fellow creator, Eden the Doll, and makes some pretty disparaging remarks, while also
continuously failing to address them correctly.
When you're assigned male at birth, you have to fight like f*** how to be feminine.
You have to fight like f*** how to be feminine.
He had to fight? What was your fight, girl? Picking the right shade of lipstick?
He's talking about a fight to be feminine when it's like, oh, a fight like surgery? Oh no,
he's not done that. A fight like hormones? No, he hasn't done that. A fight like therapy? Oh,
he hasn't done that. A fight like changing your name legally? Oh, he hasn't done that.
So what's the fight? I feel like whenever people says like to refer to them as they and them,
they're like kind of saying that they have like multiple personalities, like split personalities,
like a million people. She also chose this practically unknown non-binary person as the
quote, worse SJW over numerous other public figures in another video between then and now.
So here's one where she claims there is no such thing as male and female brains. That's what's
really, really annoying is you have all these random, honestly cisgender people claiming to
be trans to look cool and spreading out things like there's no such thing as male and female
brains. And then we find ourselves over here where she keeps reiterating the fact that non-binary
people are not the same as her, which is all well and good. I'm happy for her, but it's a
misleading point. Take a look at this very short clip in which I tell the non-binary individual
that we are not the same. My name is Blair. I'm transgender and I'm a Republican. My name is Jamie.
I use they, them pronouns, identifies a queer non-binary trans femme. I also identify in the
spectrum of asexuality. I believe non-binary is under the trans umbrella. I completely reject how
non-binary people specifically have injected themselves into the trans label. I am a
transsexual. There's a medical basis for that. There's a scientific basis for that. And for
non-binary, it's really not the case. You don't know my life. You don't know my experiences with
gender dysphoria. I'm not saying that you're the one that said that I was erasing you as trans.
And I, I am like, you're not trans. Like there's a medical definition of being a trans. I'm going
to stop you. Jamie, how are you doing? I'm okay. You're okay? Yeah. Do you feel like talking? You
don't have to. Okay. Blair plays this clip like it's some huge gotcha, but it actually just shows
the disparity between the two points she's trying to make. Someone has asserted they fall under the
umbrella and Blair disputes that, which is her prerogative, but that's not equatable to saying
that another person was claiming you were the same. In fact, they seek to emphasize they believe
in a more inclusive label that Blair seems rather bothered by. You can only reclaim that these two
points are compatible if you solely derive your identity from your trans label, something that
I'm sure Blair would never advocate for. No, I am not trying to bash non-binary people. I'm not
trying to say that I'm better than them, above them, higher than them. We all put our pants on
one leg at a time. We are all equals here. What I am saying is that we are different.
Okay. It seems to me that the goal of non-binary people is to completely destroy and deconstruct
the binary, and the goal of trans people is to operate within the binary, as in moving from one
to the other. Listen, guys, I'm talking about peace, love, understanding. I love everyone. We're all equal,
especially the greengrocers. I'm sure some of them are great people, but I'm pretty sure the
greengrocers are kidnapping cats and claiming the reward money when missing posters are put up. I have
to save some of this, but the point being, if you didn't like Blair before, she didn't seem to be
more sensitive, and when it came to validation, this is someone who is not trans. This is someone
who's claiming to be trans by what? Putting on lipstick and then going in the media talking about
trans issues as if they know. Well, if there's moving the goal posts, Blair was moving the gate
posts, but at least she still had her research sorted, right? Well, let's talk about it.
Okay, here's the thing. The first two points that we've discussed, Blair may defend herself on.
She never promoted herself as a bastion of sensitivity. On the contrary, in fact, she knows she's the
problematic queen. If she has strong opinions, she's going to express them, regardless of who she
offends. If you were going to criticise her, you could say that this sort of attitude makes her more
sensitive videos, such as her apology video to Riley Dennis, somewhat disingenuous.
There have been Reddit threads and 4chan threads with hundreds of comments on it, of people trying
to prove that I'm not trans because I haven't done this or that, or, you know, digging up my old
pictures, and, you know, I'm a strong person, I'm a happy person, but to sit here and pretend like it
doesn't affect me at all would just be a lie. However, even with that said, she may respond to this,
claiming that these two situations are not equivalent. After all, her whole point was that
non-binary individuals were not the same as her, and this mostly staved off the criticism, even if it
did feel like an us versus them narrative sometimes, no matter how much Blair declared there was no ill
will in her rhetoric.
And honestly, I know I'm gonna get crucified for this video, but I really don't care. My intention is not to,
again, bash, or put down, or belittle non-binary people. I really don't care what every way you identify as.
How about it?
We'll put this on the back burner for now, though, and turn our attention back to the third issue,
one that we wouldn't necessarily expect to be present in a video like this, that being poor research.
This is the one aspect of content that Blair wouldn't really have any defence against, after all, you can't
really dismiss it and say, deal with it, liberals, I'm bad at fact-checking. Intellectual rigour is to be
aspired for, regardless of political affiliation. However, in the aforementioned upload, not to be
outdone, Blair manages to tick all three boxes with a rather bizarre citation.
Another thing is that there is a long historical basis for transsexuals, like, as early as surgery was a thing,
people were having the desire to change their sex. Gender dysphoria, previously known as gender identity
disorder, is something that has been around forever, whereas this new wave of non-binary is literally
something that's popped up maybe since 2014 and on. Google Trends shows it.
Ah yes, Google Trends, the bulwark for scientific grounding. Now I personally use it, and I have used it,
for illustrating public interest or awareness of a trend, but not for the existence of an entity,
and Blair's assertion can be quickly challenged with a bit of actual research. For a video titled
The Truth About Contrapoints and Non-Binary, there isn't really much contrapoints, and there's also a
distinct lack of truth, though I'll give up points for having no deficiency on the non-binary front.
Recently, Sam Smith came out as non-binary and wants the entire world to use they-them pronouns,
because it wasn't enough to be Russian famous, he also wants everyone around to bow down and,
you know, change their language for him.
The videos that followed were no less brash, with her attitudes seemingly becoming more and more
impersonant, but I don't really want to focus on that, and let me make it clear, I could. We could
talk about the thumbnails that continue to feature people who have nothing to do with the video topic
and merely serve to allow Blair to pull her grossed out face, despite the fact she was literally just
called out for that, or we could talk about her ridiculous and pointless flame war with a smaller
creator where she once again resorts to insulting the person's trans identity regardless of what
they said. Just grow up. The antics that persisted after this, with the photoshopping and all that
crap, I have nothing else to add, it is self-explanatory at this point.
So, with all that behind us, let's talk about the children, a topic that has always been very close
to Blair's heart, and one that has also been the centre of gender discourse for a long time.
Certain commentators in particular take an interest because it's a sensitive and controversial topic
that has led to some mishaps in the past, and obviously, in these instances, there can be ramifications
of great moral significance. At the same time, with such topics, given their sensitivity, it requires
attention to detail, and respect for those who may be affected by the consequences such
narratives may invoke. Blair, like she did with a fair few other subjects, held a pretty cautious
stance on the matter, but mostly tried to talk about the issue from a perspective of common sense,
a safe bet with the internet at least. However, her track record on the subject wasn't the cleanest,
she had previously generated some controversy a few years back in a now-deleted video titled
Child Transitioning Equals Child Abuse, the title being the least provocative component.
In the infamous upload, she claims that the mother is pimping out her child's identity for profit.
Hm, what are the odds that a transgender activist gives birth to a kid who ends up being transgender?
Shocking coincidence, right? So then the question becomes, was she an ideologue before or after her
kid became trans? Well, her pinned tweet is of her doing a public talk years ago in which she
explains how her child transitioned at four. Four. A really quick Google of the mother shows that
she's been doing press and interviews and talks for years about her kid, and I'm sorry, but this
just reeks of pimping out your kid. She also has her own organization called Transparenting, she
sells t-shirts. I mean, this is lucrative for her, and I'm sure that this cover of National Geographic
is just her big brain. This was not just debatable, but frankly preposterous, and research showed that
the mother, who was the prime recipient of these characterizations, was practically the antithesis
of everything that Blair alleged, leaving many to arraign the creator for inducing a tidal wave of
hatred against a person who was merely trying to support her daughter. But okay, that was 2016,
Blair. This was 2019, I'm not going to give a spiel about the fact that she had a wider audience now
because we know that doesn't play a large role in dictating her narrative, but allow me to give a
brief preamble about this situation. Essentially, just under a couple of years back, a child became
the center of a political tug of war after the divorced parents disputed their gender. The father
in this family claimed that the mother was forcefully transitioning one of their children against
their will, setting up a page and fundraiser to fight the custody battle after a jury ruled against
him. This caught wind in the media and online conservative circles, causing the issue to become
quickly politicized as well, with one allegedly highly incriminating clip making the rounds, in
which the child claims the mother told them that they were a girl.
You're a boy, right?
No, I'm a girl.
Who told you you were a girl?
Mommy.
Blair decides to weigh in on this matter, after all, her personal investments run deep, and she delivers
a decisive verdict on the clip in question.
So you guys, this video to me is... I don't even want to get emotional, it's so sad. I think first of all,
you know, children going through custody battles and, you know, being weaponized by either party or
both parties and just going through that is so sad, and adding in this transgender layer, but you
know, I have to be honest, the child saying, my mom told me I'm a girl, um, not cool. Now, I've been
looking into this story and many people are saying that this child has been coached and is being
forced into this, and just based on what I have seen, I have to agree with that. That is personally
my opinion.
She then moves on to the regular narratives about the transgender community and the discussion about
putting children on hormones at the age of seven, and the dangerous, dangerous consequences it can have.
The institutions who have supported this and pushed it through and caused a great, great threat to this
child who is far too young to make such a decision for themselves.
I don't know. Sometimes I seriously lose faith that trans people will ever be accepted into society and
integrated into society when just the insanity that comes out of the community is so constant.
I don't know. I just feel like we never have anything positive coming out of the community. I feel like it's
always, if you don't date me, you're transphobic. Yes, seven-year-olds can decide to transition.
Yes, male athletes who popped two estrogen pills should be able to compete against women and demolish
them. Like, when, like, when is the community going to step up and realize things are going too far
and regain some credibility here? Because it's not looking good. It really isn't. Honestly, the
biggest thing for me, this is a kind of different rant, the biggest thing for me is that the trans
community seems to have no self-awareness of how they're viewed by the outside world. They
literally have no clue. A lot of these people are so caught up in their own sort of discourse and
people who agree with them that they don't realize how insane it sounds that a seven-year-old is
having his gender changed legally, is going to appointments for puberty blockers, and they just
think it's so bewildering that anyone could possibly conceivably think, should we slow down
just a little bit? No, transphobe. Like, it's just disgusting. But here, Blair was engendering much
more trouble than any of the people that she seems so concerned about. I'll say this, you know, in the
off chance that the mother of James is viewing this video, I don't want to come across as I am
attacking you. In fact, I would like to publicly reach out via this video if you watch it and say,
let's have a conversation. I would love to talk to you. I am not some random internet troll,
I'm not some anonymous person on Twitter, I'm not some hater. I'm a trans woman myself, and if
anything, I've walked this path that your son and yourself may seem to think is the right path for
him, and I'm actually willing to talk to both of you. But it's okay, I guess. At least she's willing
to have a discussion. Well, Blair, let's talk about it.
You know, it's so sad, but I hope to God that James
lucks out in the sense that he grows up and truly is trans and also doesn't want a family,
because those are the only two circumstances that would validate the choices being made for him
right now, is if he both is really trans, to which he won't regret the medications,
and that he doesn't want kids, because it already seems to be decided up for him right now,
that that's the case. Before it was circulated by a load of conservative outlets, creators,
and even some on the liberal end of the spectrum, this whole story was pretty comprehensively
investigated by a creator called Timber on Toast, who quashes most of the narratives put forward by
those in favour of the father. You should go and watch that one after this, but he shows that the
dad in this instance is by no means a helpless passenger losing his son, but someone who
instigated a lot of trouble which was practically rebuked by every medical professional who supported
the contrary perspective. Dr. Johnson receives a letter from the child's father, in which he makes
allegations about the child's mother. This letter is ignored by Dr. Johnson, who sees the child
and diagnoses them with gender identity disorder. Following the diagnosis, the medical centre tries
to contact the father to keep him involved in the process. He delays scheduling an interview
with them, saying that he is gathering information he wants to present to the head doctor. The records
show that he never followed up on scheduling that interview. The therapist confirms the diagnosis of
gender dysphoria which was made by Dr. Johnson, and advises the mother that it would be better
for the child's psychological well-being to socially affirm them as Luna, which is a girl's
name that the child has chosen for themself. The therapist advises scheduling another appointment
when the child is eight or nine to discuss whether or not hormone blockers are an appropriate measure
to take. By this time, it transpires that the child's father has contacted Dr. Johnson,
Child Protective Services, Genesis Clinic and the follow-up psychologist, making allegations to all
of them that the mother is abusing the child. He states that he suspects the mother is suffering
from Munchausen by proxy, the very same mental illness proposed by Dr. Michelle Critella,
the lady quoted in all those articles I read about this case. None of the professionals who receive
the father's letters find his allegations to be credible. This information can also be found in
court documents published around that time if you're fun enough to read them, and I'm not saying
this necessarily makes the mother a saint or that this whole hubbub even has a bearing on the
child's identity, which has now probably been completely disrupted by political figures sticking
their nose in far too deep to a case they have no knowledge of, and interfering with a court
case which has been deliberated and heard out by a jury. However, once again, a preconceived narrative
was pushed as truth without question. I mean, hell, the governor of Texas basically complained
that his own judicial system wasn't working well enough.
I love you. Please leave a comment. I want to know everyone's thoughts. Please share this video as
well. I feel like this is extremely important. Blair was a part of that, and she, of course,
doesn't have the mainstream draw of any of the figures who took to Twitter to make known their
outrage, but it was once more wrapped in those points of view that tried to make her look like
this disillusioned observer and frustrated moderate that was becoming more and more tiresome
by the upload. And honestly, even wearing what they want, if I'm being completely honest, I don't
have an issue with that at all. But the mother has been going to consultations for puberty bloggers,
is quote, not ruling it out. And it seems like this boy's fate is already decided. You know,
I do believe seven year olds can experience gender dysphoria. I was one of them, but no
seven year old is prepared mentally, emotionally, anything to make the decision to go on puberty
blockers and then hormones and then live as a woman at seven. You also see in the court notes
that there is no concrete plan for the child to go on hormone blockers. The child is six years old.
It's stated that when they are eight or nine, they will have another consultation where they
will seek advice on whether or not hormone blockers are the correct course of action.
Back when she was edgier than this and controversial, you could at least say it
was pretty clear where she would stand. But here it just felt like a bit of a ruse.
Blair constructs a fair few of her videos like this, especially when they're short and quite
loosely formulated. She starts with a root situation and branches off with a variety of
observations and opinions. You can deal with a few of those branches being off, a few points that
don't quite hit. However, if the whole root discussion is off, then the video is basically
nullified. Most people, left or right wing, wouldn't advocate for young children undergoing
hormone therapy because, like Blair said, there can be serious consequences for a decision
undertaken at such a young age when one still has a very uncertain grasp of their identity.
However, because the mother wasn't actually advocating that, Blair's secondary points here
don't feel authentic. It often feels like Blair shapes the evidence to fit the narrative rather
than vice versa, which is risky business with such a high stakes case. And she wasn't the only person
who did it here. I will make that clear. But there's a point where if you use your identity
as a badge of credibility, you need to certify it by proving you're better than those who are
pushing identical points of view. Otherwise, that additional experience means very little.
Now I'm transgender and I have feelings of gender dysphoria at that age as well.
But one thing was that I felt like a girl at that age, but it wasn't because anyone was telling me.
It wasn't because anyone was putting anything on me. It was actually the opposite.
It was the entire world, including my parents telling me, you're a boy, you're a boy, you're a boy,
and me still feeling that way. So it was not based on what my parents were instructing me on.
So that's incredibly worrisome in my opinion.
I think the problem is perfectly embodied in a situation like this, when you have a common
sense position. Many viewers, regardless of political background, will be in unison that
a mother should not force a child to transition against their will. But Blair utilizes the case
and pushes the narrative of the dangers that transgender extremities within the ideology
will produce. Blair's assertions appeal to mainstream audiences because the positions
they're rooted in are moderate by nature. That's the catch. But she's validating this
stance through a manufactured scenario. Sometimes she picked up the narrative from secondary
sources such as the I'm a predator, but it's okay because I'm trans, where she once again echoes
many claims that this individual received early release from prison because of their gender
identity, which was later contested. I'm going to read this headline to you. Convicted Pedo
to be released from jail after becoming a woman, no longer deemed a threat.
We need to dissect this. So that person was sent to prison and is now being released.
Get this, because they are identifying and transitioning into a woman. Literally because,
and I thought that can't be the reason there has to be maybe like, I don't know, good behavior or
an exoneration. No, this person still did what they did, but is getting released because they're
on hormones and according to the judge, no longer deemed a threat. So apparently the recommendation
for Josie to be released was based on the fact that Josie is on hormones, estrogen, and apparently
now doesn't have a high sex drive, and so they think it's a low risk future offender and that
they're confident Josie is not going to offend in the future. Side note, I love how she states that
parole isn't about the risk of reoffending 30 seconds after lamenting that this individual
wasn't released for good behavior, which of course has nothing to do with the risk of reoffending.
It's the same routine, moderate position. No one's going to agree that a person's sentence should be
shortened just because of their gender identity, but on further investigation that appears to not
be the case. However, it's that P word again that seems to not make a lot of people think twice.
I'll defend Blair on the front that a lot of the facts were only easily accessible after she had
released the video. However, the same can't be said for exposing games to a transgender person video,
which includes her own interpretation of personally collated research.
Tiffany proclaimed on her social media that her child now, go figure, is trans, specifically
non-binary, refers to them as a gentle them, which is so, like, that makes me want to do something
very permanent to myself that I won't say because I'll get demonetized. There's photos of Tiffany
painting the nails of this small child, which on its face is not bad. I don't think anything is
wrong with pigment on someone's nails, boys or girls, but when you couple it with now trying to
convince your child that they are also trans, that's an issue for me. People also message me
with concerns over photos with Tiffany and Tiffany's boyfriend, someone out there for
everyone apparently, wearing fetish collars around the sun, posting really weird photos of the sun
laying in his crotch while he's wearing women's panties. Yeah, so all of that's really concerning
as well as a bunch of photos of Tiffany seemingly posing very seductively in bed with the kid and,
like, you don't want to attribute something, you know, nefarious that isn't necessarily there,
but when you couple it with all the other things and the fetish collar and the weird picture where
the kid is in between the lap and the women's panties, you know, it's just very suspect and
I'm not making any direct accusations here, but I think it's something worth looking at.
Now, there are many causes for concern when it comes to Tiffany's social media conduct and
parenting skills that I would raise, but none of these explicitly prove what's denoted in the title.
Hell, Blair's own video seems to state this, but once again, the video's presentation of the word
predator and ultimately inconclusive evidence of a person who I stress is with their child is a
massive stretch. The use of the word predator is no longer just being used to play towards that
mainstream audience. It's a word that provokes strong feelings and universal condemnation.
No one wants to defend a predator, but how low are you willing to set the bar?
And I hope to God that things are not as bad as they seem to be just based on social media,
but what we know about social media is that it's like the highlight reel of people's lives.
So a fair proportion of what Blair presents as moderate has been first distorted to appeal to
the moderate crowd, though a lot of the time it is unclear whether it has been distorted before
Blair has interpreted the content or not. Although Blair has her biases, she may just be a bit
susceptible to them. To say definitively that she's actively neglecting due diligence,
you'd need a bit more solidified evidence that she was misrepresenting the content that she
depicts on her channel, henceforth undermining so many of her precious narratives.
And that wasn't exactly there yet.
Blair- Still, one day left in 2019, and I feel like 2019 was no one's year.
I feel like no one is making it out alive this year without some sort of cancellation,
some sort of scandal, and I'm a little shocked.
But it seemed that we were about to receive it.
One of the points that many sympathetic to Blair would draw from a fair proportion of
her commentary is that even if you feel she's wrong time to time, that she was at least
consistent to her fault, and that most of these issues that we've observed are yielded in a
variety of political cliques due to a fairly basic application of confirmation bias.
Her greatest failing was parroting misinformation rather than looking it up for herself,
but this theory would be tested when a new situation arose, thanks to someone by the name of
J.K. Rowling. J.K. Rowling is a pretty famous novelist who shouldn't require much introduction,
but she is primarily known for her authorship of the Harry Potter book series, an international
best-selling saga of fantasy novels, which launched an equally successful set of films,
which has only manifested its fandom in the years following. On a more personal level,
many regard them as a pretty integral part of their childhood, and hold the works very close
to their heart. However, in recent times, some have found themselves alienated by Rowling's divisive
political nature. What sort of convictions were these? Well, you may be shocked to find
they were related to gender. Yes, despite having socially liberal views on many issues,
she began to attract disapproval from some online after expressing support for Maya Forstata,
an individual who had lost an employment tribunal after her relationship with the business was
discontinued due to statements the firm had deemed ill-suited for her position. At the time,
it was implied that she had been sacked with immediate effect, and some headlines also
understated the extent of Forstata's comments, but even with this information publicly available,
Rowling didn't back down. White was also someone who advocated for Forstata at the time,
and a few days later would make a video defending J.K. Rowling's comments.
J.K. Rowling is actually someone who has traditionally been referred to as very woke,
someone who is very much favourite by the type of people who go out and call everyone transphobic,
so I was really curious as to why everyone was saying this. And apparently, it's because of
this tweet. Stress however you please is the first line. Not seeing any issues so far,
I feel like that is very agreeable. Who disagrees with that? I don't really know.
Call yourself whatever you like. Okay. We're choosing our names out here. Love it.
Now, as noted, there wouldn't necessarily be a huge issue with Rowling's tweet if its
presupposition was correct. Most people took issue with the fact that she backed someone
who many found held unsavoury ideas that were unbefitting for a position, and the fact that
the inference followed that certain gender identities were merely about how one dresses.
Now, one thing that I will say is that there was a lot of misinformation on both sides that
muddied the waters unnecessarily. However, the hearing in question did not rule against Forstata
on the basis that she believed sex wasn't real, more on the fact that she was judged as believing
that trans women were not women, and pronouns aside, she would not refer to them as such,
even if they were recognised otherwise officially, and that her take on the matter was deemed
absolutist, henceforth possibly yielding behaviour that could be seen as hostile to the work
environment. Meyer's beliefs were repeated throughout the trial, even when explaining
her misgendering of a non-binary person continuing to misgender them, I'll add.
Something else which Blair harves on, in fact, managing to misgender this person as well.
BLAIR Now, it's going around that Maya actually was on Twitter and misgendered a trans woman,
and I'm going to put that trans woman up on the screen, and I want you guys to tell me
what pronoun you would probably naturally use for this individual. Right?
With all this said, you can still disagree with the ruling and think that she should be free to
express those opinions on her social media without fear of reprimand. The judge does acknowledge that
there are shades of grey in this case, and I think they can be observed when reading the court
document. In fairness to Blair, she recognises this, is critical towards Forstater, and expresses
her opinion of the information available to her. BLAIR But I also will say it's my opinion that
these are not beliefs that I think should warrant someone being fired for their job. I understand
it's a private company, and they can decide who has the values that align with themselves,
and that's totally fine. I respect that, right? I respect the companies, right? 100%. But two things
can be true at once. You can respect the company's right to hire and fire as they see fit, and also
think it's kind of a lame reason for firing her, in my opinion. I personally don't think the jury
is out on a lot of these issues that we're debating and talking about, and so I feel like
we should be allowed to have them without fear of risking of losing our jobs.
At this time, she also takes a moment to affirm her stance on JK Rowling.
I do not think JK Rowling is transphobic. I think she's probably someone who is paying attention to
this culture war happening on gender, and if we're just basing off of her tweet, I don't see
anything transphobic in her tweet. That was a big reason, her simply stating that biological sex is
real, and if we're getting to a point where we can't say that, girl.
And to be honest, maybe Rowling was misinformed, but that doesn't prove that she was outly transphobic,
so Blair concluding on this point was a safe bet, especially for her audience. However, as always,
Blair set a benchmark for her opinion, and that meant she was going to defend it pretty staunchly.
However, this would be tested as Rowling's fiascos escalated. Essays were published, tweets were
posted, heated interactions were shared, some of which certainly seemed questionable on the
writer's front. However, Blair maintained her stance, framing the author's outlook as mostly
misunderstood by those who want to simplify it to one that could easily be classified as bigoted,
without the nuance or respect it deserved.
Conservative and liberal, the world is definitely right now divided into people
who can have a meaningful nuanced conversation about sensitive issues,
and people who can't. That's it. That's the division I see these days. The conversation
gets very muddy because people who are on the outside looking in at this whole fiasco happening,
they really do think trans people are turning on JK Rowling and don't like JK Rowling anymore
because they think JK Rowling is transphobic. But I want you guys, the next time you hear someone
talking about how transphobic someone is, please pay attention to who is saying it. I think I know
what transphobia looks like, and try as I might, and as many people are in my ear trying to tell
me that JK Rowling was transphobic in these tweets, I'm not seeing it as a trans woman,
and that's my genuine opinion. However, Blair's commitment to this standpoint would be tried
once more when Rowling released a crime novel, directly spawning further allegations of
transphobia due to its portrayal of a character who doesn't conform to traditional gender roles
as a sadistic predator. This was the rallying cry for Blair to drop her hot take, so in typical form,
she uploaded a video declaring she'd read the book, and that people were once more overreacting
to a simple detail. How could we doubt such an informed observer?
This time, everyone is up in arms about her new book being released called Trouble to Blood, and
just a heads up, I read the book. The concept of being a transvestite makes a very quick, brief,
fleeting appearance in the book, and it's extremely unimportant. It comes in the form of one line in
the book, one page in a 900 page book, and it's where the killer is described in one of the
instances of him snatching a woman up as wearing a disguise of a wig and a woman's coat. That's it.
I'm not kidding, that's it. That is everything to do that you could even remotely, if you really
stretched your mind, sort of bring that to the idea of transgenderism.
Well, the first red flags come when you realise she is wrong. In fact, there are multiple pages that could
be deemed troublesome in their content. But okay, maybe Blair just missed other references. We all
know she's not the most meticulous sometimes. Well, this becomes even more concerning when you
realise that she was not even the first person to make this specific error. In fact, this incorrect
assertion had been published in a spectator article a few days prior, and also spoken about on
public interviews.
I want to read this excerpt from a review on the spectator that I completely agree with. Let me put
it like this. When you reach the last pages, the full absurdity of the statement that Rowling's
moral seems to be, never trust a man in a dress, will be revealed.
Just going back to the book itself, from what I understand, it's simply just one line, and it's
not even necessarily referring to the killer as a transvestite. I think it just mentions that the
killer at one point wore a wig and a woman's coat, so that there is no trans rhetoric coming out of
this book at all. Then you combine this with the fact that she claimed to have read a 900 page book
in the space of 12 hours, which although not impossible, seems even less likely to be the truth
with the additional information available. It's like when two people sitting next to each other
make the exact same mistake in a test, you kinda know that one of them is cheating.
Because coming from the perspective of someone who did read this book in the last 24 hours,
there's no honest, genuine way you can link the two. I mean honestly, anyone coming to the conclusion
that this somehow demonises transgender people is either lying or has not read the book,
or is really really nutty.
Some may have admired Blair's readiness to defend Rowling against the quote,
woke brigade, but if she was prepared to falsely claim she had conducted research that she actually
hadn't with the intent to bestow herself with extra credibility, how trustworthy
was she as a source and as a creator, and how many were beginning to take notice.
While I do believe that her book is extremely problematic, and before you can comment like,
did you even read it? Yes, I read the book. At least I read the first 10 chapters that were free.
I was not about to pay this woman for her book. And honestly, the first 10 chapters are all you
need to read to like, determine that one, Blair's a liar, and two, JK Rowling is a little like...
Most of the excerpts I've referenced in the previous part were derived from a video by
trans YouTuber Samantha Lux, who made a video responding to Blair, not just correcting the
misinformation in her video, but also responding to a lot of the ensuing arguments that Blair
had averted. Blair demanded in her video that she is not a cross trans woman, she's not a
transvestite, so to say that characters like Buffalo Bill, or to say characters like Dennis
Creed have any impact on her would be offensive. Girl. Girl. It is not only incorrect to say that,
but it's wildly irresponsible. I'm not claiming that these movies, or even JK Rowling's new book,
should be trashed, or that you can't watch them, or enjoy them. All I'm trying to say is that we
need to be aware of the ways that representation of identities in media affect our perception of
those identities. It's a pretty solid response, and it certainly brought some previously wandering
eyes firmly onto Miss White's questionable groundwork and retitude. There have been doubts
earlier on in the year related to her coverage of Darby Vanity, where she appeared to use the
source material of another creator known as Temimi, while contorting the perspective to
protect the infamous Jeffree Star.
TEMIMI Blair White, the person who has gained over 500,000 subscribers for doing this,
omitted information in her video, and then lied about it. Oh, right, that's because she used some
of my clips in her video, and I could tell this specifically from the music I've used,
and also from the pictures that I personally edited out, so that way my video wouldn't get
buried in the algorithm. But in the first, like, 60 seconds I want to say of my Darby Vanity video,
I put up screenshots where Jeffree Star says these tweets, and then I emphasize the date on it,
and then right after there's another clip of him talking about going on tours, and doing all this
stuff with Darby, and supporting him again, and making a song, and then boom there's a date on it
again. And Blair White had the audacity to omit that information, she clipped it out,
and made it seem like, wow, Jeffree Star is this hero for saying something about Darby Vanity,
and never mentioned the fact that he had retracted his statements.
You know, Jeffree worked with him, and then tweeted that, and then it was over.
What do you mean you didn't have all of the facts? They were right there, 20 seconds into the video
of mine that you downloaded for your video! That's a lie, Blair!
At the time, however, in spite of the pretty irrefutable evidence contributing to this pattern,
this didn't seem to affect her reputation too much, partly because the original video included this
as a chapter, rather than as a dedicated subject, and although a more popular video was also posted
on the subject, some people struggled to follow it without the background information.
Combine this with the fact that this was still a footnote in Blair's greater video, and she was
exposing someone rather reprehensible nonetheless, and most people appeared to let it slide.
She would also appear to go against Jeffree Star in a later video, though some found it slightly
convenient. It covers James Charles and another unnamed YouTuber, and it's a very uneasy upload,
to say the least, with Blair mostly rambling, once again feeling like she was attempting to find a
reason to publish a video with a snappy title, but ultimately culminating to very little.
BLAIR What? You know what I'm saying? Like, if this is my first interaction with you,
and you feel comfortable to tell me this, thinking that I'm just going to be in on this little game
and complicit, and hee hee hee, no! That's something serious! And yes, it did take me a
month to do this video, but that's because I have been scared! This is something serious!
And I want to be very clear, this is not my place to out this person, you know, the victim's name,
because this is clearly their story to tell, but you guys have to understand the position I'm in.
If I receive credible information that a very famous, very powerful YouTuber is a sexual
molecular or predator, but am I complicit with helping cover up for a predator by not saying
that at least that much is true? I have to say, I do find the tone of the video rather confusing,
because although I think it's fair to call Jeffree out for his pathetic behavior, I was confused as
to what trap Blair was breaking out of exactly by going public with this information after it was
already public, but I digress. What matters is that the JK Rowling video attracted attention towards
Blair's potential missteps, though once again, I think people were more focused on the present,
and it would likely phase out as it normally does, provided she didn't exacerbate the situation with
greater blunders, but Blair's errors were always pretty scattershot in their occurrence, so what
were the chances that would happen? Well, maybe she tempted fate one too many times.
And with that in mind, let's talk about trans athletes.
And there are plenty of female athletes that could absolutely wipe the floor with me.
Female athletes in the comments, just comment what sport you want to beat me in, because you can do it.
Any of them. Pick one.
Transgender athletes is another subject of interest on the Blair White Network, and it's not hard to see
why, as it, like many other channel favorites, it pertains to gender identity, and how it interacts
with other social variables. It has similarly been the center of heated debate for a few years,
given the often-gendered nature of sports, and questions surrounding the suitability of individuals
whose gender identity some feel could give them an unfair physical advantage against cisgender
athletes. With this in mind, you can probably take a guess where Blair stands.
Blair White's sports teams are segregated for biological reasons, therefore, even for trans people,
you have to take biology into account, and it should not just be based on identity, it should
be based on their bodies, and their puberty they went through, how early did they transition,
how late did they transition. I think all of that matters.
Well, little surprise there, but up until September of 2020, she hadn't really been caught up in too
much controversy, mostly holding her own within the discourse on the affair, partly accountable to
the fact that there is still some ambiguity within the public sphere, even on the more liberal side
of the political spectrum. Therefore, it must have seemed like a routine upload when she decided to
criticise a transgender powerlifter for competing against women, despite the visible bodily superiority.
The bigger point is, the idea, the concept of Janae competing against biological women is ludicrous,
it's almost intentionally ignorant, and anyone who thinks that that is some sort of level playing field
is a liar. I mean, the audacity of anyone to pretend or insist that there are no very obvious
benefits that Janae as someone who developed completely male well into her adulthood would enjoy
when competing against people who did not develop male is insanity.
She metaphorically tackles the person at the crux of this curious case,
Janae Marie Kroc, and moves on. However, there was one little hitch.
And something we don't often see is that Janae actually went back post-transition and competed
against men just because I guess like it was kind of like she's gone back and forth competing with
men and women based on I don't know what. I mean, that's just a move. No pun intended.
This was all fundamentally untrue. Yes, Kroc had long made the commitment to not compete against
women. But okay, Blair made a false assumption. This isn't new territory. Well, you see, the
information that Kroc would not be competing against women under any circumstances was
actually written in one of the posts that Blair references. In fact, it's in the post that Blair
uses to push her point Janae Marie Kroc is competing against women. Up until that point in
the video, although it had been implied, she'd mostly spoken about Kroc's involvement in women's
competitions, as if it was a hypothetical. With this post, she solidified that assumption,
when really, reading that post should have debunked it. Not soon after the upload, Kroc
posts a comment on the video and a separate Instagram statement expressing her dismay at
the misinformation being disseminated, and the consequences it could have. This was also picked
up pretty quickly by a fair few online, with creator Sam Collins uploading a response to Blair
around a week after, primarily covering this mishap alongside other prior incidents. In spite of this
criticism, though, Blair did not respond. This was not out of the ordinary for her, she was used to
being castigated by communities. This time, though, the outrage didn't subside. In fact, as she
appeared to provide people with radio silence, their annoyance only grew, demanding more
accountability from someone of her size. As the videos and comments piled up, it became clear that
this was something that had to be addressed, and in mid-October, two to three weeks after Janae's
initial comment, the video was finally removed. At this point, though, a mere attraction wouldn't
suffice for many viewers. She had already caused excessive harm, and that needed to be rectified,
not just for her sake, but for the sake of the affected party. At the same time, as some began
to take note of her other transgressions that had previously flown under the radar, the backlash
began to augment in new ways, and some began to wonder how much Blair had to apologise for.
Janae's Mom- So I want to be as clear and upfront in this video as I humanly can be, because I have
essentially disabled myself from being as clear and upfront as I need to be.
Well, we were about to find out.
Blair released two apologies, a text version and a video copy, the text version coming on the 15th
of October, and the upload coming approximately a fortnight later. I assume this was because some
had felt the Twitter format was not extensive enough in the audience that it would reach,
because as themes go, neither diverge too much from the counterpart's core message.
She made a mistake, a fundamental shortcoming in research, she never published it with the intent
of deceiving anyone, and that since she had become conscious to these failings, and now has been
taking the steps to resolve the situation with Janae, transferring the AdSense money she had made
from the video after it had been deleted. With that said, there are a couple curious observations
that one can make on closer analysis. I've always found the, unlike many trans athletes, a rather
strange comment. I'm not entirely sure what the intention of that interjection was, whether it was
to shoehorn in a political point, or to try and make sense of her misguided assumption. Regardless,
there's no way Blair would know how many trans athletes compete against cis-athletes, or if it's a
majority, but anyhow, the main issue is actually buying her response that she could have sincerely
missed this information when it was readily available to her, but she at least admitted it was sloppy.
In the text post, she announced the hiatus, which is formally concluded with her video, so she had
clearly taken a bit of time to refine her thoughts, and provide her viewers with a more lucid reflection
in certain aspects.
I actually want to as well, so I'm here to do that. Two weeks ago, I posted a public apology
to someone that I highlighted in a recent video of mine, which is now taken down. It was a video
on trans athletes. In this video, I highlighted a couple different trans athletes, and I talked
about upcoming legislature that's like relevant to the topic, but long story short, one of the
trans athletes named Janae, I really fumbled her story. I got her all wrong. It is for no other
reason than my own lack of due diligence and my own lack of sufficient research on her story
that I said that. I genuinely did think it did not come from a deceptive place. I was under the
misconception that she competes in both men and women's leagues. She corrected it and said,
actually, just men's leagues, and to be frank, there is just no excuse for that kind of
inaccuracy to be present in any of my videos, and I definitely never want it to happen again.
I took the video down, and I also, once I got paid from YouTube just a couple days ago, I actually
sent her the totality of the AdSense revenue that I accrued from that video.
She also explains her delayed response, yielding from her reputation as a bit of a renegade to
many who chastised her, and how it influenced her perception of the criticism that she was receiving.
Also, I know that some people are critical of the delayed response I had when I apologized to Janae,
and for that, I also have to say I'm sorry. I think the unfortunate thing is it took me
a lot longer than it should have to differentiate between valid criticism and hate, and it wasn't
the right thing to do, but I think that for a minute there, I had my blinders on because
I'm so used to sort of, you know, I do controversial topics on every video,
so there's always people mad, and I think to a certain extent, I was almost just in this rhythm
where, like, post a video, people are mad. Post a video, people are mad, but this time,
obviously, people were mad for a valid reason, and it was always valid, and I should have
recognized it. However, her reflection appeared to have obscured her memory on other fronts,
as her JK Rowling ebook had now become a physical copy.
Being a long, obnoxiously fake novel of JK Rowling's for research to doing such incredibly
subpar research on the second video, but I did, and it was dumb, and I am sorry.
It was slightly ironic that this statement followed after a persistent contention that
she would not lie intentionally, but I understand why she used this as an example to try and
emphasize that this was an exception rather than a chronic issue with her content.
But here's the problem, it does seem to be a chronic issue, and it couldn't be stressed
more than in this scenario.
It's just a learning opportunity to implement that in every area of my life, here and in my real life.
I'm not infallible, I'm most definitely susceptible to getting things wrong,
and it's really how you respond to it once you do get it wrong that makes all the difference,
and I totally get that.
In the context of the video it's presented in, it's a reasonable response, we've all made mistakes,
we've all made videos we regret in hindsight, content that we would have done differently,
and for anyone to act holier than thou in such a situation is hardly justified.
Unfortunately, with the information available on her previous actions that she had simply not addressed
in the past, it became increasingly hard to fully trust her account, especially with the JK Rowling gaffe
in mind. It would be easy to read this as her only choosing to respond when she actually faced
consequences for her inaccuracies. She had lost over 20,000 subscribers by this point,
and although such a sign may make you more conscious, many more cynical views felt like her hand had been
forced to save her skin. At the time though, many were simply not aware of this, and welcomed her apology
with open arms. She didn't necessarily need to make a video statement, so what she provided was a solid step up,
however not too long after the tides once more began to turn, as the content of those critical of her
work began to accumulate. However, the fatal blow could be attributed to someone by the name of D'Angelo Wallace.
The JK Rowling book? How did she say she got it?
Overnight shipping, a long, obnoxiously thick novel.
Overnight shipping? But I thought she said in her book review that...
I spent the last 12 hours reading it as an e-book.
So she didn't read it.
D'Angelo Wallace had been mostly known for making videos on subjects primarily involved in more tabloid
drama up to this point, pretty comprehensively, I'll add, though I'm not going to stroke his ego too much,
as he's probably watching this video right now, so he knows what he does.
His video on Blair White served in part as a documenting of this pattern of behaviour that we've discussed
throughout this episode, but also took the time to respond to her admission video, pointing out what a more
casual viewer may have missed, drawing unparalleled amounts of attention to an abundance of inconsistencies,
causing many to flood the comment section of the videos with these observations, and swing the like-dislike
ratio in a much more unfavourable direction.
Unfortunately, Blair's apology really needed to be flawless to avoid being picked apart by many of those
who had come out in force against her, and it just wasn't, it was made with a precision similar to the
videos she was being called out for in the first place, and as more turned their eye towards her,
Blair's impassioned pleas were gradually being weathered away. However, it didn't stop there,
because as D'Angelo Wallace's video came out very shortly after Blair's response, its timing meant it
served almost as a retort in itself, but Wallace nonetheless also took a great amount of time to
tell his own story. I used to be a huge Blair White fan.
I personally disagreed with her conservative opinions, but that was never what she really
centered her content around when it comes to YouTube anyway. I mean, she is a writer for this
conservative publication called The Post-Millennial, but as far as her videos go,
she mostly just provides a perspective on things that happen that's alternative to the ones people
typically run with, and I found that fascinating. What I'm trying to say here basically is I was
super transphobic when I was watching her content. I'm not saying, oh, I was raised this way or I
didn't know. I legitimately believed that trans people were irrational unless they were exactly
like Blair White, and that's insane. His upload spanning just over an hour addresses
his parasocial relationship with the creator in question and deconstructs her appeal as a
supposedly transgender spokesperson for the community, ravaging the fabric of many of her
principles and asserting that much of her content was built on belittling other trans people who
didn't match up to her standards. Or the one thing here, it's this entire pattern, and now when I
think about the fact that she's gone after somebody like Janai Marie Kroc, who absolutely
fits the description of being non-binary and says so, I'm nearly positive that Blair White has done
this on purpose, because it's what she's always done since 2016, is try to make these people look
bad so Blair can feel better. This not just shifted focus towards the inconsistencies in
Blair's content, but also towards what many found in her, particularly those who may have placed her
on a pedestal previously. Sure, she had always branded herself as problematic, but I think many
still held her in higher regard than the light that a lot of these negative videos cast her in,
even the ethos of her predator exposes were brought into contention. All of a sudden,
the significance of her apology video was dwarfed by something greater, the issue of whether her
content had been tainted by the same toxicity that had been illuminated in this debacle.
D'Angelo would argue so, but was that the entire story? Well, let's talk about it.
D'Angelo approached Blair White from the perspective of a former viewer,
and even supporter of Blair, and this created a case that was very compelling in itself.
In part two, I wanna look at Blair Wright's track record of mistakes, and what they say about the
kind of person that she is on YouTube, and I wanna do this from the perspective of a former fan.
His video walked us through the process of realization, many of which he had only come
to understand himself somewhat recently, being told with a harsh sense of self-reflection,
and consequently provoking the question for more conscientious audience members who may hold their
creators to high account. The fact that he doesn't pull any punches against his own past self means
that he does not need to compromise on his own presentation of Blair. I mentioned earlier that
I used to be a pretty big fan of Blair White, but when I stopped watching her, I didn't just
unsubscribe. I stopped and questioned myself, and had to evaluate why I was ever subscribed
in the first place. I could claim that it was just because I wanted to hear the opinions of
a trans person, but if anything has become clear by now, there are much better people on the
platform who can speak up for their trans experiences. This personal connection with
D'Angelo reached Blair White viewers who themselves were prone to disillusionment,
and as people began to experience this epiphany through the lens that Wallace presented,
some decided to make known their dissatisfaction by using the only physically tangible method they
have beyond likes and comments, taking up their qualms with the unsubscribe button.
In the comment section, beyond the many expressing shock at some of Blair's actions,
others wrote to confess that they themselves had been won over by her rhetoric without considering
it seriously. It seems that D'Angelo's message had effectively broken through, but why though?
After all, much of what she was being called out for was hardly surprising, and the catalyst
for all this hullabaloo was a research error that most would probably feel isn't worth crucifying
someone over. Hell, it wouldn't necessarily change their viewpoint as long as there were
grounds for it to still exist, which as noted, there was. And on her offensive content, well…
I know that casually saying the N-word with the hard R means you're definitely racist.
I didn't see her address those in the truth about my racist past video.
Go back a few years and you had one of the most prominent commentators on YouTube arguing that
slurs were completely acceptable, and whether you like that or not, the truth is that it's
not a deal breaker for a lot of audiences. So beyond this and D'Angelo's ability to relate
feelings and responsibility to those watching, how did this video show Blair up to the point
where she was hemorrhaging subscribers faster than she was before?
I really do feel as though this is sort of a very simple natural consequence of sort of
the entirety of the trans community, their activists and the Wokeys as we call them,
really plugging in their ears at every ounce of evidence that people are constantly trying to
give them that like, look, it's not about hating trans people. It's not about like having horrible
feelings towards them. It's literally just this isn't fair and it's obvious. Can you guys please
address this? And they just don't. Well, I think it comes back to the root theory, not just
regarding her videos, but herself as a whole. She bases a lot of her assertive persona on the
stances she takes and the fact that she has a grasp on them. She walked that balance of being
the outspoken person who isn't afraid to say it as she sees it. But if that's not how she actually
sees it, if her vision is that obfuscated, what grounds does she have to say it? How can you
justify all the jibes and snarky comments without the grounds? At that point, you risk reducing
yourself to an edgelord with no greater purpose than to stir the pot. People questioned how she
could sincerely hold the beliefs if she wouldn't properly evidence them. On a more serious note,
many felt with the misinformation that she purported, this could lead to false beliefs
being held about marginalized groups that may drive bigotry and discrimination. This also
compromises elements of her demeanor, because when you reverse the logic, you realize that
everyone she has characterized as being unreasonable activists who hated her because
she was spit in facts may have actually just been critics who were irked by the alleged mistruths
propagated in her content, and her status as this pariah becomes much more apt. The shoe is on the
other foot now. And what could Blair say to this? Well, to be honest, it was a very rough
predicament given she had already admitted to making a mistake. Creators were free to draw
their own conclusions from it if they were well evidenced. She could respond, but it would risk
prolonging the turmoil that she was already going through, and possibly inflicting more losses onto
herself. Unless she had some receipts to turn the situation on its head, it wasn't worth the hassle,
so she moved on to calling out a mossy who is completely deserving of being called out. Of course,
she had to make the point that no one else was talking about it, other than these people, of course,
but that's just the clickbait game. The video itself is fine, but with that shadow still over her,
it seemed that much of the momentum that she had was now against her, with a gross subscriber loss
of over 70,000. Some may ponder if that is truly fair on someone who hasn't done anything of the
scale and consequence of some that we have given air time on this channel before, but at that point
she had been charged with a crime of influence. In my opinion, Blair White is the most irrational
one out of them all, and it's not because she's transgender or for any reason other than the fact
that she is a liar who wants to manipulate the emotions of the whole world into becoming evidence
for something that she knows isn't true. I'm not saying she was being persecuted here for having
unbiased opinions, it was a greater point claiming that she was either being unbelievably reckless
with her platform, or that she was just an outwardly bad actor, and that convinced many
to withdraw their support. It was difficult to argue against it with the volume of evidence
available, and I think the most disheartening fact was the revelation that very little had changed
over the years which had passed, even if it was presented under a different guise. Blair had
gravitated from the outdated cliques of certain viewpoints of 2016, and the trouble they would
often instigate, which was great. However, this ultimately worked against Blair because whereas
in past situations, such as the Riley Dennis case, the behaviour could be chalked up to certain
communities and environmental factors causing her perception to be coloured, it became apparent to
many that these shenanigans transcended external variables. Even as she moved into the mainstream
eye, she perpetuated a lot of these issues. Even as some had warned her, and called her out,
she had time to fix this, and ultimately it was a Blair White problem, which is why she suffered
to the extent she did, and why videos like D'Angelo's hit as hard as they did. As a matter
of fact, many commentators had clearly cottoned onto this, because they were all choosing to come
up with their own hypotheses for what personal motives drove Blair to act in this way, latching
onto the examples of invalidation, to push another fairly common hypothesis we'd previously considered,
the good transgender person.
I cannot even tell you the thousands of emails, thousands of comments that I got from people
who had literally no understanding of trans people before that Jessica Yaneef story,
and when they saw my video calling it out, and they realized that I'm trans calling it out,
their perspective was changed 1000%. And suddenly they realized, I shouldn't have painted an entire
community with that brush, and this girl seems normal, this girl's cool, and that was what
happened. Like, no, there are normal trans people out there who don't believe all these radical things.
However, this only really addresses a personal philosophy that may drive certain aspects of her
beliefs, and risks overlooking the actual conduct that landed her in this jam in the first place.
It's a jump that ignores a few steps, and I'd like to take a moment to step over them myself,
as I do believe there was a bit of disparity in what people actually believed here.
Do not fear, we'll cross the bridge of what Blair's personal philosophy precipitates when we reach it.
Beyond the fact that it is of course just theory, whether well backed up or not, I'm sure there are a few
people who likely feel the way that Blair does, yet for some reason they haven't ended up in the public
quagmire for peddling misinformation on the internet. Blaming that solely on what Blair believes seems
somewhat insubstantial. Misinformation comes down to, more fundamentally, two explanations, negligence,
or malice, or both, maybe, who knows. Some would be inclined to say that this is a case of negligence,
that's what Blair herself said, as a matter of fact, she actually alludes to it in her video, making this
bold claim in her defence.
While I know some people think this was intentional deception on my part, I can guarantee you this is not the
case. Lying about something that the public can then go correct you on is only slightly more dumb than
not doing enough research and coming to a false conclusion, and it was a really dumb moment on my part,
and I'm not taking away from that, but I also would like it to be known that it was not malicious intent,
or something that was intentional.
Now, on paper, it's not like this doesn't hold water, it would be incredibly counterproductive for her to
intentionally spout falsified content when she was already under scrutiny. There were other examples that
would have been more appropriate, examples she had referenced in the past herself. To some, maybe Blair's
biases had finally conquered her, she went into the video with a perspective first, and didn't pay mind to any
information that would actually counter this, and could have easily prevented this faux-puck, it wouldn't have
been difficult to find a new subject and uphold her point of view, right? Well, I suppose it depends on what
point you believe she's trying to make. This is where we can reintroduce the point that many were articulating,
that she'd like to make an example out of those trans people who didn't look like her, and in many ways,
the upload in question was no exception.
Jenna- I'm not making fun of her appearance, I mean, I think that obviously her appearance is outlandish,
and I think that even she would admit that, because how could she not? But that's not the point, the bigger point is...
This was one of the comments that many harped on when criticising her, it felt like she was going after an
individual on the basis that a person did not appear as orthodox as she did, and this is what motivated her
to single out Jenna. Was this enough for her to discount information that would serve to the contrary?
Well, some would argue that as well, especially given only the video before, many believed that she had lied
about reading a book she never did, especially given it was a lie that she subsequently repeated in a video
where she expressed remorse. If lying was easy, then how could we trust her intent on any other front?
Well, the truth is that you can't, but does that definitively mean that it was an act of malice?
You see, her comments about JK Rowling's book was definitely one to bolster her credibility,
and likely views as well. It was daft, and would justifiably prompt one to question the integrity of future
comments about her tenacity. However, this is mostly a disposable comment, which although she shouldn't have
made, also wouldn't have had the greatest implications whether she had actually read the book or not.
In fact, if she had her facts straight, nobody would have any reason to disbelieve that she read the book,
even if she didn't. It's easy to make an aside comment to try and outperform fellow commentators
in the algorithm. That doesn't mean you're capable of knowingly twisting information about other people
that could, in reality, be borderline defamatory. However, you could also respond to this by saying
that Blair had been called out for this behaviour on a continuous basis. There are more than ample
warning signs that her research was not sufficient, and that she would regularly either dismiss this
criticism, or sweep it under the rug. Now, to be honest, I wouldn't necessarily expect her to address
every individual mistake, when she wasn't the only person who fell foul to fake news. However, the fact
that she clearly was aware of certain incidents and reacted to them, such as the drag queen one,
for example, should have been an indicator that she needed to tread more carefully, but it never felt
like she did, and that made it much harder to defend her. However, the question still begged,
what did Blair really have to gain from being so intentionally dishonest? Well, I guess the obvious
one would be clout from pandering to an audience's ideology. In the case of some creators, they'll
find a niche, realise they're somewhat limited in their scope, and begin twisting or stretching
stories to their audience tastes, even if that means not being completely transparent. There are
some cases where it feels like Blair did this, such as the Trump hat in Hollywood. However, by
2020, I wouldn't say that her audience had a collective credo, and she could have easily taken
a more moderate standpoint, and not been strung up. She'd done that before with the transgender
bathroom issue, and not been criticised, so it does point to something personal, and arguably
possibly the most malicious explanation. The idea that Blair was trying to indoctrinate her viewers,
using content calling out predators to advance her moral standing, and then capitalising on that with
dangerously slanted opinion pieces based off dubious sources that she knew wasn't the case.
This would indeed be a very ruinous portrait, and would certainly explain at least a fair majority
of what we've discussed. However, it is also based on assumptions whose verity we can't be certain
of. It goes on the pivotal assumption that Blair knew she was lying in each of the stories, which
although plausible, is not the sole explanation.
You can say a lot of things about me, and I know I'm messy. I'm a messy ass b****, this is nothing new,
everyone who knows me knows it, everyone who doesn't know me but hears about me knows it, it's true.
Many of Blair White's videos emanated the high school goss energy, and Blair's demeanour similarly
matched that. She never appeared to be openly vitriolic towards anyone, but she constantly
walked the line very precariously, blurring the boundaries between idle minded errors and
intentional manipulation. The failure to provide proper information and omit a lot of relevant facts
appeared to be a result of laziness of research, and the fact that she based a lot of her material
off other creators who were also heavily biased. She'd come in with her own preconceived narratives,
and not question the intent. Her controversies often showed her as being impulsive, petty,
and in a way self-interested, but not really in a particularly calculated manner. To paraphrase
Blair a bit more unflatteringly, one would expect a person to be a bit smarter if they
really wanted to take advantage of their audience in such a way. I'd say the greatest lie that Blair
has maintained is this idea that she is some high research creator who is working behind the scenes,
when really she's just a T-Youtube who talks politics. With that said, there were other situations
such as certain response videos where it became very hard to believe that she'd missed information,
or cases where it seemed she was presenting slanted points of view. The fact that she leaves
next to no references means that people can't fact check her as easily, and may make one question
why she does it. Maybe she knows her sources are a bit unreliable. More importantly though, this is
why Blair's biases have come to the forefront of her content in the first place. Otherwise,
no one would really be able to challenge her opinions too deeply, provided they felt like
they were properly derived from the actual observations that could be made. Too many times,
her opinions led the videos rather than the subjects themselves, and that was a detriment
to her and those that she spoke about. We know what these opinions are at this stage,
but what can be said beyond that? Well, let's go there now.
As said, I've never watched Blair White routinely, but I know a fair few people who have, and one of
the recurring comments that stopped them from watching her was the fact that her takes became
predictable. This is never a good trait to attribute to a creator, but I think it's worse
when you're dealing with information that is warped to suit your predictability. As the years
passed, and she became more mainstream, she may have changed, but not necessarily in a way that
rectified the previous issues that she'd been called out for. As a matter of fact,
you could harken back to one early video that clearly reflects her core views to this day.
So I think this meme pretty much sums up how I feel, but I will go into more detail.
So yeah, I think all these identities are largely bullshit. I think they're super arbitrary,
I think they're super meaningless, I think people who take them on are usually extremely boring,
and have nothing else for their personality other than I'm demi-queer, non-binary, genderfuck,
special snowflake kin. This mostly unsubstantiated idea that many of the people she railed against in
certain scenarios were concocting their gender identities for attention, and you know, on the
internet, sure, there are people who go to extreme measures in certain communities, but many of the
people she would go on to subsequently make an example of, were not people who she had any way
of backing up such a claim, other than her own prejudices. In her first ever upload, during her
brief anti-feminist phase, she talks about the differences between how men and women are treated
in society. She does reference some evidence-based arguments, but as we noted, talks about her
personal experience as well.
The term ladies first is definitely something that's actually implemented, it's not just a phrase,
and while these are sort of frivolous examples, I do think there's something worth noting about the
quality of life that women experience based on operating through a society that's just kinder to
them, that's just more polite to them, that's just more welcoming of them.
It's curious because those she has most vitriol towards, in many ways, are the people who are already
receiving a lot of stigma from the communities that surround them, and if you are to consider how
society treats you on a personal level as a form of privilege, then many of the people that blare her
ranks are some of the most alienated in society, whether that was the transgender women who struggled
to pass, or non-binary people who identify in a way that is contrary to traditional gender roles.
So to pose the question, why would these people act in ways that are attention seeking if there is so
little to prospectively gain, and who are we to say beyond a shadow of a doubt those are acting in
such a way regardless, unless there is serious evidence to prove it? The other point that Blair
would regularly advocate is the one that she doesn't want to be thrown under an umbrella with
certain individuals who may not have shared similar experiences that one would consider
inclusive of what she feels constitutes as transgender.
What really gets me about that is that there are so many different letters in the LGBT acronym at this point,
I think we all know it's basically the entire alphabet, plus some numbers, so there's all these
micro-distinctions, this is this type of person, this is this type of person, this is this type of person,
but yet for me saying, okay, I'm different than that is a problem.
She seems highly insecure about the fact that she may also have to share the spotlight with people who
haven't gone through medical procedures, which I'm sure are highly distressing experiences, and I would
never take that away from anyone. Nonetheless, anyone who's subjected to additional social stigma
for not conforming to binaries like Blair does is still another form of suffering, most people would
probably just like to live in peace away from that. When it comes to this issue, Blair says it pretty
succinctly herself.
And the goal of trans people is to operate within the binary, as in moving from one to the other.
She wants to exist within the gender binary, which is good, I'm happy for her. However, it feels like
she's driven by this slippery slope argument that the transgender community and society as a whole
will just evolve into this totalitarian civilization where everyone announces their pronouns before
they initiate a conversation, and those who don't conform will be thrown into the gulag.
An exaggeration, I'm aware, but she frames it as if many non-binary people are motivated
to deconstructing the gender binary as we know it, despite the fact that many non-binary people
also identify with traditional gender roles as well. This isn't just the case for non-binary
people though, this is the problem with Blair's rhetoric in general, and one that reared its head
again with the Janai Marie Kroc situation, that claim that some fabric of what we're used to is
going to be lost, and hey, trying to preserve tradition is in part what makes her conservative,
I understand that. However, it feels like Blair's reaching for bogeymen to raise one's level of
concern when a lot of the time, a situation is more nuanced than it appears, watering it down
with notions that she's long established but not necessarily thought to check if it's completely
relevant to the point that she's making in the first place. Hell, in a video a few uploads after
a big apology where she responds to a video with a person who identifies as a dog, she falls foul
to this once more.
The only thing I know about this before watching it is that this is a trans man who is also a trans dog.
If you think I'm saying this to make fun of this person, that is not the case, this is literally
how this person describes themselves, a trans man who also identifies as a dog.
2020, what's good? Bella, look, it's your cousin.
The issue is that this person never said they identify as a dog, and a quick watch of the full
video will show you that this is role play.
That plays anytime that a person takes on the role of an animal, and they emulate that animal,
either through their behavior or their actions.
However, it's put in the original video's title as a bit of clickbait, I suppose, and Blair just
runs with it without demonstrating any semblance of critical thinking, and playing into the biases
that she's been known to possess time and time again.
I identify as a dog thing. I identify as a man and also as a dog thing.
Like, it makes a mockery of actual trans people, and y'all don't need me to even tell you that.
Like, y'all know.
This perfectly feeds into the millions of people on social media just search up the terms I identify
as. It's like a big joke.
Like, it's a joke.
Like, I identify as a helicopter.
I identify as this phone.
I identify as this hairbrush, and it adds such an extra layer that the person is actually,
you know, a trans man, supposedly.
Like, why are you equating?
Like, why are you doing that?
You're blurring lines that I would prefer not to be blurred.
And here's the thing, with this in mind, I do think the mainstream media mishandles trans issues
in a way that may provoke some people to be defensive of their identity.
I've never liked the idea of singular spokespeople for a whole community of extremely diverse
individuals, and I do think a lot of them take advantage of the shock value that some may provoke,
but you have to see through that.
The greatest problem is that instead of merely calling out the coverage of a lot of this content
on these failings, Blair goes one step further, and in a way contradicts herself.
Now, she does call the mainstream media out sometimes, but then goes on to assume a lot of the
stories as prototypical, often using them to denigrate other trans identities, whether she
intends to or not.
However, I think once you establish the fact that a lot of the time, the media and third-party
sources can be highly unreliable narrators in representing your community, you have to consider
how they may have changed the perception of the story and where the truth actually lies.
Blair makes this argument that, to put it quaintly, feels like she's frustrated that the attention
on certain individuals begins to erase her own lived experience and warp this idea of what the
community is really like, but her response is to try and undermine these people's identities,
sometimes with the same points that are levied against her community in the first place.
It's cruel and counterproductive.
No community is going to represent identical experiences.
No group of people is even going to share all of them together.
We are different, and I don't think people in any community should need to compete for validation.
Does that mean they're the same?
Of course not, but does that mean that a person can't share a label that many believe to be
inclusive anyway?
Hell no.
I don't think Blair accomplishes anything by putting people down in such a way,
and the fact that her points aren't well grounded makes her own biases even more blatant.
Maybe there is more work to be done, but I don't think Blair ever presented a solution,
and I don't think she's changing.
But what changes should be made?
It's easy to sit here and point out the problems, but what's the solution?
At the start of the video, when I stated that I was at least surprised I found myself on this alongside Blair,
I guess the shock wasn't just because of what I knew her previously thought,
but how I recognised the best begrudged ambivalence many critics still held towards her,
how she was still disliked by a lot of people.
The issues were still prevalent, and I think it made her position more vulnerable
given the number of those who looked to her for reasons other than her politics.
I questioned a lot whether I should make this part in past or present tense,
given the fact that a lot of it is obviously retrospective, and she has definitely mitigated some of her rhetoric.
However, Blair has continued to slip up in delivering information, at the time writing,
most recently with a story about a person by the name of Barbie Kardashian,
who is worse than Jessica Yaniv.
Nice little throwback reference there.
The star of today's video is someone by the name of Barbie Kardashian.
Yes, this mugshot is real, this is not a creepypasta,
and this story is probably the most disgusting and disturbing instances of a trans person being put into a women's present,
and I say trans person in quotations, you will see why this person is basically Jessica Yaniv on steroids,
I would say on hormones, but that's not the case.
The video once again circulates information from very slanted websites,
and doesn't really address the actual situation, including this picture which lacks a source.
After some reading, I'd say the allegations against the women appear to be true,
though they're taken from a report which keeps the original individual anonymous, but it adds up.
The mugshot may be true because the Garda did release one to its officers,
however, one site just said they obtained it and no one questioned it.
However, Blair, once again bawling foul to the pseudo-common sense position,
implies that a take on this matter is the moderate one.
I think there are problems with both ends of the extreme, and so I'm gonna offer some solutions in this video that are outside of that.
I know a lot of people, maybe even that are watching this video, are more comfortable with keeping it simple in their minds,
which, you know, biological sex you're born as, that's what prison you go to,
and then other people are gonna be more on the extreme of, if this person says they're a woman, they're a woman,
but these sort of absolutist, extremist positions are what gets us into 99% of the messes we get into in all areas of when it comes to trans people.
For example, me b****, in their right mind, who would think that if, God forbid, y'all caught me flippin' and convicted me as some kind of crime,
that I would be best placed into a men's prison.
Of course, Blair, we should have an independent board which assesses when people are woman enough to be permitted to women's prisons.
Genius.
Here's the thing, and in my humble opinion, in part, a reason for why so many people in the past took to Blair,
I don't think our philosophy is one that is completely alien, particularly in 2016.
Born out of a frustration at certain institutions, individuals, and their somewhat obnoxious doctrines,
you see the antics, and it causes a gut reaction.
A lot of people felt it back then, and some still feel it today, especially when they feel like they're on the receiving end of it.
There definitely are people out there who make unreasonable demands of those around them,
some who are far too hostile and unpleasant in trying to pursue their causes,
and others who I think are too sensitive and far too overreaching in what they try to police.
Righteousness doesn't always make you right, and I'll be the first to say that.
I think the issue is that even to this day, a lot of us tend to base our beliefs as a reaction to the environments around us,
rather than the bigger picture.
Okay, good. Okay. Well, ask him.
Get him a check if we're shutting this big ground.
Now, if you do not listen to her, your event will be shut down right now.
Right now. Your decision. Make a decision now.
We will let, we won't, no, we are going to, we are going to let you on the mic.
Do not silence her.
Okay. All right. So we are trying to be reasonable.
We are trying to be reasonable. We are trying to be reasonable.
We're going to give you, we're going to let you on the mic.
We are going to give you the mic.
Well, after Senator Sanders, after Senator Sanders, after Senator Sanders.
In fact, then, given how someone documented to have been behaving, it made Blair's existence as a creator easier to justify,
and consequently normalized a lot of the actions that we now reflect on with distaste.
However, over the years, for a lot of people, it's been about understanding that actually, even if the previous criticisms
leveled towards certain individuals may be valid, it doesn't mandate complete opposition to them or their ideology.
In the case of Blair, this sense of closure seems to have been replaced with a greater and greater straw man
of what these people may collectively want and why it's wrong, despite the fact that there isn't necessarily
a clear consensus that could easily define their interest beyond acceptance.
This then leads to certain sweeping statements and comments which may as well be from those on the other side of the aisle.
I've been there before, trying to fight the middle ground because you see people who claim to speak for your interests
who don't even want to consider your own opinion as a member of that group, but at the same time arguing for the contrary
without the conscious recognition of that can be just as destructive.
I remember uploading a video myself towards the end of 2017 on Riley Dent's when I was in that genre,
which would be chronologically after Blair had apologized to Riley, and even though I expressed my many disagreements with her,
the most backlash I received was for actually addressing her as a woman.
For many in that genre, the damage had already been done, and I think there's a point where you have to recognize
that when you position yourself against people, you're just playing into the division that you seem so driven to resolve.
Blair appeared to have that realization herself, but then just regressed back to it, just for a different set of people.
In a way she hasn't changed, she just goes after people who are indisputably terrible, and uses it to indirectly demean their trans identity instead,
and sometimes she just doesn't even go after people who are terrible anyway.
In 2020, the year where I think everyone was just about tired of smoke and mirrors, the extremes we were being drew into,
Blair may have been looked towards as a saving grace, but I think it ultimately led to her position being unraveled
because people had enough. Those who didn't believe her position as the creator standing up for common sense was legitimate.
Common sense isn't built on one's sense of centrism or compromise, it's built on a philosophy that values information,
research, and rigorous discourse, whether that leads to positions that are left or right wing.
And that's the thing, anyone could go over Blair's videos, pick apart every time she's wrong, every time she's been reckless,
or irresponsible, reprimand her, but that wouldn't make you better than her, and it certainly doesn't make me better than her.
Everyone fucks up. The difference is that Blair's problem is one that fundamentally underlines her career on YouTube,
her own philosophy, which is continuously laid more and more bare every time she makes the exact same mistakes.
It's not a popular opinion, it's not a politically correct opinion, but I've never been one for political correctness, so yeah.
Back when she started, you could see the potential for the creator that she is today.
Her channel always felt like a very personal venture, with many videos discussing her experiences and stories.
However, there were also prevalent flaws which showed her nature to jump to conclusions, and points that felt strained to prove a greater thesis which wasn't always there.
At the same time, there were definitely reasons to think she could alleviate these, she used some references here and there,
seemed quite open to discussion, and was definitely part of a greater community which could be partially accountable for the atmosphere that bred certain behaviours.
Yet, that just hasn't happened. In a way, Blair White is the only YouTuber I've come across who uses less references in her videos now than when she started,
despite the fact that I'd argue it's more important than any time before.
Calling out people for heinous actions gives you a greater imperative to justify it, whether other people assume it to be true or not, whether it has been established.
Also, it's really not missed on me that in recent years, it seems like a really cheap, easy way to get a lot of media attention for celebrities to come out as they, them, and non-binary and trans and all that.
And of course, it's very convenient to come out as a they, them, because you don't have to actually commit to any sort of transition.
Courtney Stodden, Sam Smith, the guy from Queer Eye whose name I can't remember, the one who looks like Jesus, the actor we talked about earlier with Tree and Tree Self,
I'm literally just so many more I can't even think of, and I'm not saying every single one of them is disingenuine, but like, it's a little too convenient that it's just one after another, after another, after another,
when you know that if this was 2014 or 2013 before this was even a trend, they would not be coming out.
Given the fact that the only real influential variable that has remained consistent is that personal sentiment she appears to possess,
many people feel that she is attempting to separate herself in a way to obtain acceptance from those who may be more skeptical of certain identities.
If that's how she personally feels, then I can't take that away from her, but it's not how you run a channel that claims to be bridging the divide,
given how much her personal sentiments surface in those videos.
I don't think society is a negotiation table where you bargain who's going to be accepted to satisfy the most individuals.
In the grand scheme of things, that's not moderation to me, it's appeasement.
Moderation isn't only about what opinions you have, though it does influence it.
It is a state of mind, and on too many occasions, Blair failed to exercise it.
I wouldn't care if you were a conservative, liberal, or progressive, that stands independently to me.
That duty couldn't be more valuable, as Blair had soon warned herself into the mainstream.
People wanted that recognition of nuance, that attention to detail, the moral obligation, but they didn't find it,
because Blair's opinions often didn't extend in a way that went beyond counter-cultural conservatism.
That whole counter-culture position never felt like it had too many beliefs to stand on on its own merit,
and you can only be against so many people before those around you wonder what you're really for.
If you don't back up your positions, then what reason do people have to trust you over those you paint as the extremists,
some of whom hardly have the most extreme views?
If Blair wants to give us moderation, she has to represent the other side, rather than just her response to assumed absolutists.
There is a discussion about trans people, included or excluded from it, and what is the right way to navigate, right?
And my friend and I both agree that the trans community, as it stands now, will never achieve full acceptance,
and how we've almost noticed an uptick in, like, anti-trans people, and almost like a resurgence of people
who, like, straight up don't like trans people, don't get it, are very turned off by the community and by trans ideology,
and then actually lash out at us, like, in an anti-trans way.
As many other creators have already observed, there are other individuals who cover a variety of trans issues in a balanced
and detailed way, and in much more depth, some of whom have gone to lengths in the past to correct some of Blair's shortcomings.
I don't think this means that Blair's perhaps lightweight content should be banished from the platform,
but I think it also has to be done with perspective for what it represents, and at least with an active effort to distinguish
at what point should be drawn from such an upload. Otherwise, people give it too much consequence in what it could say
about communities, and she needs to be more mindful when dealing with the topics that do carry that substance.
Blair needs to be more sensitive on that front, whether she wants to pertain that nonchalant brazen attitude or not.
She's still a creator who takes themselves seriously enough to make videos about online scoundrels,
alongside some pretty strong words. These things have consequence.
But sometimes things just cross the line, and on several occasions, I cross the line, and I'm sorry.
We've all learned the hard way, but we own it, and we work out how to improve.
Yet, over the years, the changes to Blair's channel feel cosmetic, made to present the feeling of progression,
some apologies, some alleged reconciliation, but you strip away the makeup, and it's the same foundation that it was before.
And as the internet changed, those flaws became clear. Makeup is temporary, what's underneath is permanent.
And I'll make this clear, I think Blair is far from the worst political creator on YouTube,
but she suffered the most because she played the riskiest game, her audience held her in very high regard.
She appealed to those in the mainstream, some of whom very conscious of their ideas,
and still piled straw onto the beleaguered camel. A part of me believes that she does hold her beliefs close to her heart,
because as she said herself, much of her failure to present solid information isn't the best option,
but she continues to do it, yet a connection to a bygone era that may be worth letting go.
Through old friends, and new enemies, and the incessant drama, time may have passed,
but she remains ever present, and as she does, I hope she pays these thoughts some consideration.
The world is changing, and as we move towards 2022, it should be clear that moderation needs to be more than just a buzzword.
It needs to be backed up, you can't just play both teams, or expect your character will be defined off the back of who you call out alone.
Blair set a higher bar than she could obtain, and ultimately paid the price for it.
Whether she'll continue to do so will depend on how she goes forward, I just hope she doesn't go back.
Thank you.
So that was the video, and a big thank you as always, a very, very long one, but I hope you enjoyed it nonetheless.
I want to give big thanks to the editors who have done a fantastic job, I'll be putting all their links in the pinned comment,
so be sure to check them out if you liked what they did, big shout out to Logan as always, post editing,
titers have a great work, thanks to Linuski for the music, and Staffo for the thumbnail, just great work all round,
and I really appreciate everyone who helped out, who watched the video, who gave me their feedback before the release,
so thank you so much. I also want to give thanks to the artists, they'll be in the pinned comment as well,
and of course the lovely low patrons, the $10 patrons who will be shown on screen right now,
but also a special thanks to my $50 patrons, Hypercube, GothCreamPuff, CatEars.jpg, and Esther Padoya,
what a great set of names we have there, and also a very special thanks to my $100 patrons, Marlowe and Kiel Lomeland,
I'm not entirely sure how I pronounce that, but you can always message me and give me feedback on that one, Kiel.
Otherwise, my social medias, I don't really use them, but they're there, and of course the references will be at the bottom of the pinned comments as well,
in case you want to check out the links for yourself. Big thanks again to everyone who helped out,
much love to everyone who supported me, I know uploads have been a bit slow, but hopefully they can return to a decent pace soon,
though I doubt this will be the last slightly contentious topic that I'll be covering, so get ready for some vigorous debate at least.
I don't really have too much else to say, so I'll wrap it up there, thank you again all for your support on this monster of a video if you made it to this part where I just talk randomly,
thank you everyone, take care, take care, I'm The Right Opinion, and I will see you in the next one.
Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.